Economics of Disability Research Report #3:

Estimates of Median Household Size-Adjusted Income for Persons with Disabilities 
in the United States by State, 1980 through 1998

Andrew J. Houtenville, Ph.D.
Rehabilitation Research and Training Center
School of Industrial and Labor Relations
Cornell University

This research is funded by the United States Department of Education, National 
Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research, cooperative agreement No. 
13313980038.  It does not necessarily reflect the view of the National Institute 
on Disability and Rehabilitation Research. The author thanks Richard V. 
Burkhauser for his helpful comments.


ABSTRACT

This report uses data from the March Current Population Survey to estimate 
median household size-adjusted income for persons with and without a disability 
in the non-institutionalized working-age (aged 25 through 61) civilian 
population in the United States, and for each state and the District of Columbia 
for the years 1980 through 1998.  The median household size-adjusted income of 
persons with a disability relative to those of persons without a disability 
varies greatly across states.  Since 1980, however, the growth in the median 
household size-adjusted income of those with a disability has fallen below that 
of the rest of the working population overall and in the vast majority of 
states.

INTRODUCTION

This report estimates and compares the median household size-adjusted income of 
the non-institutionalized working age (aged 25 through 61) civilian populations 
with and without a disability for income years 1980 through 1998, using the 
March Supplement of the Current Population Survey (CPS).*1  Brief summaries of 
state rankings and changes over time are provided.  The Appendix discusses the 
statistical precision of all estimates.

This is the third in a series of reports that explores the economic status of 
people with a disability.  Estimates of the populations with and without a 
disability are reported in "Economics of Disability Research Report (EDRR) #1: 
Estimates of the Prevalence of Disability in the United States, by State, 1981 
through 1999".  Estimates of the employment rates for men and women with and 
without a disability are reported in "EDRR #2: Estimates of Employment Rates for 
Persons with a Disability in the United States, by State, 1980 through 1998."

DATA SOURCE AND DEFINITIONS

The CPS is a monthly survey of the non-institutionalized population of the 
United States, conducted by the Bureau of the Census on behalf of the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics.  Information is collected from approximately 50,000 households 
(about 150,000 individuals) on labor force characteristics (e.g., employment, 
earnings, hours of work).  One person in the household answers questions for all 
household members.*2  

In March of each year, the CPS basic monthly survey is supplemented with the 
Annual Demographic Survey, also known as the March Supplement or the March 
Income Supplement.  This supplement focuses on sources of income, government 
program participation, previous employment, insurance, and a variety of 
demographic characteristics.  In 1981, the March Supplement was expanded to 
include several questions about disability and income derived from disability 
programs and insurance.  The CPS and the March Supplement are used extensively 
by government agencies, academic researchers, policy makers, journalists, and 
the general public to evaluate government programs, economic well-being and 
behavior of individuals, families and households.*3  

A major advantage of using the CPS to track the population with a disability is 
its large sample size.  Because the CPS samples approximately 150,000 
individuals, it is possible to track this population at both the national and 
state level.*4  The March CPS also provides a relatively consistent set of 
questions on disability from year to year.  However, other aspects of the survey 
have changed.  In 1994 the CPS moved to fully computer-assisted survey 
interviews, and sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with 
sample weights based on the 1990 Census.*5  The Monthly Basic Survey was also 
revised and three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that 
these changes affected the relative measurement of the population with a 
disability over time. 

In this report, disability is defined using a single question in the March CPS.  
Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having) "a health problem or 
disability which prevents them from working or which limits the kind or amount 
of work they can do."*6  This definition puts disability in the social context 
of work.  This simple definition of disability is not directly affected by 
program participation.  This measure of disability is commonly used in the 
economics literature (see Bound and Burkhauser, 1999).  Most recently, 
Burkhauser, Daly and Houtenville (2000) use this definition to estimate the 
employment and economic well-being of the non-institutionalized working-age 
civilian population with a disability.  The work limitation concept of 
disability can also be found in many national surveys (e.g., National Health 
Interview Survey, Survey of Income and Program Participation, Panel Study of 
Income Dynamics) that have been used to measure the working-age population with 
a disability.

Using this work limitations measure of disability, EDRR #1 shows that the non-
institutionalized working age civilian population with a disability ranged from 
a low of 7.2 percent in survey year 1988 to a high of 8.4 percent in survey year 
1994.  EDRR #1 compares this measure of disability to an alternative measure of 
disability, which is based on work limitations and participation in disability 
related public programs.  Similar disability prevalence trends were found using 
these two measures.

The CPS March Supplement asks about income in the previous calendar year.  In 
this report, income is the sum of all income from wages, salaries, self-
employment, farming, interest, dividends, rent, private transfers, as well as 
income payments from Social Security, Unemployment Insurance and Workers' 
Compensation systems, and state and federal public assistance programs.*7,*8  
Household income is the sum of all income received by individuals in the 
household.  Since a given amount of income provides a higher standard of living 
for a single-person household than it does for individuals living in a larger 
household, household income is divided by the square root of household size.*9  
Since income is compared across years, all income values are inflation adjusted 
using the CPI-UXI index and are in 1998 dollars.  See Burkhauser, Daly and 
Houtenville (2000) for an example of previous work using this definition of 
income.

Finally, the CPS places upper limits on income values (top-coding), the value of 
which  changed several times over the period covered in this report.  Medians 
rather than means are used to eliminate the influence of top-coding.

RESULTS

EDRR #2 explores annual employment rates of non-institutionalized working age 
civilian men and women with and without a disability.*10  For men, the 
employment rate ranged from a low of 34.4 percent in 1998 to a high of 44.8 
percent in 1981.  For women, employment rates ranged from a low of 28.1 percent 
in 1981 to a high of 37.5 percent in 1989.  In the 1980s, the employment rates 
of men and women with and without a disability were pro-cyclical, rising in 
years of economic growth and falling in years of economic contraction.  In the 
1990s however while the employment rates of men and women without a disability 
continued to be pro-cyclical, the employment rates of men and women with a 
disability dropped continually from their 1989 business cycle peak levels 
despite substantial economic growth in the 1990s.

Changes in median household size-adjusted income must be considered in the 
context of the business cycle.  Table 1 provides the estimated median household 
size-adjusted incomes of men and women with and without a disability in the 
United States non-institutionalized civilian population aged 25 through 61 for 
income years 1980 through 1998.  As can be seen in the first row of Table 1, the 
median household size-adjusted income for men without a disability was pro-
cyclical, falling in the recession years of the early 1980s and 1990s and rising 
during the growth years of the late 1980s and 1990s.  By 1998 the median 
household size-adjusted income of men without a disability ($33,529) exceeded 
its 1989 business cycle peak level ($31,944).  As can be seen in the second row, 
median household size-adjusted income for men with a disability has a similar 
pro-cyclical pattern, dropping to $13,948 in the business cycle trough year of 
1982 and then rising to $16,565 by business cycle peak year 1989.  Median 
household size-adjusted income of men with a disability then dropped again as 
the economy went into recession in the early 1990s, and has risen slowly since 
1993.  However, this growth has been so slow in the 1990s that by 1998 median 
household size-adjusted income of men with a disability ($15,832) had not still 
returned to its 1989 business cycle peak level ($16,565). 

As can be seen in row 3 of Table 1, the median household size-adjusted income 
for women without a disability was also pro-cyclical over the 1980s and 1990s.  
By 1998, their median household size-adjusted income, like their male 
counterparts, exceeded their previous 1989 business cycle peak.  Women with a 
disability (row 4) experienced income trends similar to men with a disability, 
while their income increased over the growth years of the 1990s, their median 
household-size adjusted income in 1998 was still below their 1990 peak.

Row 5 of Table 1 also provides information on the median household size-adjusted 
income of men with a disability relative to the median household size-adjusted 
income of men without a disability over the same period.  Row 6 of Table 1 does 
the same for women.  In all years, the median household size-adjusted income of 
men and women with a disability are lower than that of their counterparts 
without a disability, so the ratio of their median household size-adjusted 
incomes are consistently below 100 percent.*11  The median household size-
adjusted income of men with a disability relative to men without a disability 
ranged from a high of 53.7 percent in 1987 to a low of 47.2 in 1998.  The median 
household size-adjusted income of women with a disability relative to women 
without a disability ranged from a high of 53.9 percent in 1982 to a low of 46.6 
in 1998.  The ratio has trended downward since the business cycle peak year of 
1989, falling from 51.9 percent to 47.2 percent for men with a disability and 
from 51.2 percent to 46.6 percent for women with a disability. 

To further highlight changing income patterns, Table 2 compares the 1980s and 
1990s for men and women with and without a disability.  Annual median household 
size-adjusted incomes are averaged over the periods, 1980-1989 and 1990-1998.*12  
The average annual median household size-adjusted income of men without a 
disability rose slightly from $29,567 during the 1980s (1980-1989) to $31,068 
during the 1990s (1990-1998).  In contrast, the annual median household size-
adjusted income of men with a disability rose from $15,080 during the 1980s to 
$15,275 during the 1990s.  This difference is reflected in the relative average 
annual median household size-adjusted income of men with a disability in the two 
periods.  The relative average median household size-adjusted income of men is 
51.0 percent for 1980-1989 and 49.2 percent for 1990-1998.  As can be seen in 
the last column of Table 2, the relative average annual median household size-
adjusted income of men with a disability fell by 3.7 percent between the two 
periods.  The income pattern for women with a disability is similar.  The 
relative average annual median household size-adjusted income of women with a 
disability fell by 4.1 percent over the two periods.

Table 3a provides median household size-adjusted income averages for men with 
and without a disability over the period 1980 through 1998 for the United States 
and for each state and the District of Columbia.  Column 1 contains the absolute 
average annual median household size-adjusted income of men without a 
disability.  Column 2 does so for men with a disability.  Table 3a shows the 
relative average annual median household size-adjusted incomes of men with a 
disability (column 3). States are ranked according to the relative average 
annual median household size-adjusted income of men with a disability (column 
4).  Table 3b contains the same results for women.

As can be seen in column 3 of Table 3a, Utah had the highest relative average 
annual median household size-adjusted income of men with a disability (70.7 
percent).  The District of Columbia had the lowest (37.5 percent).  As can be 
seen in column 3 of Table 3b, North Dakota had the highest relative average 
annual median household size-adjusted income of women with a disability (76.1 
percent).  The District of Columbia again had the lowest (39.3 percent).

Table 4a compares changes in relative median household size-adjusted income men 
with and without a disability for the periods 1980-1989 and 1990-1998.  Table 4b 
does so for women.  States are ranked according to the percentage change in the 
relative average median household size-adjusted income of those with a 
disability between the periods 1980-1989 and 1990-1998.  A positive percentage 
change in relative income signifies a closing of the income gap between those 
with and without a disability.  Conversely, a negative percentage change in 
relative income signifies a widening of the income gap between men with and 
without a disability.  As can be seen in Table 4a, there was wide variation in 
outcomes, ranging from a rise of 14.8 percent in Montana to a fall of 37.7 
percent in Kentucky.  As can be seen in Table 4b, the percentage change in 
relative average annual median household size-adjusted income of women with a 
disability ranged from a rise of 21.1 percent in Mississippi to a fall of 37.7 
percent in Rhodes Island. 

CONCLUSION

This report uses data from the Current Population Survey to estimate and compare 
the median household size-adjusted incomes of those with and without a 
disability over the 1980s and 1990s for the United States and for each state and 
the District of Columbia.  In the 1980s the median household size-adjusted 
incomes of men and women with and without a disability were pro-cyclical, rising 
in years of economic growth and falling in years of economic contraction.  In 
the 1990s, while the median household size-adjusted incomes of men and women 
with a disability continued to be pro-cyclical, by 1998 they still failed to 
reach their 1989 business cycle peak levels despite substantial economic growth.  
In 1998, the median household size-adjusted income of those with a disability 
relative to the median household size-adjusted incomes of those without a 
disability was at its lowest level in two decades.  The relative median 
household size-adjusted incomes of those without a disability varied greatly 
across states, and in most states this ratio fell in the1990s.

APPENDIX

The CPS sample design allows researchers to estimate statistically precise 
annual median incomes at the national level and for many states.  Although 
persons with a disability make up only about 8 percent of the non-
institutionalized working-age civilian population in the United States, the 
number of CPS participants is sufficient to obtain statistically precise 
estimates of median income for persons with a disability at the national level 
and for many states.  The consistency of the CPS survey instrument over time 
allows estimated median incomes to be averaged over consecutive years, which 
boosts the statistical precision for those states with small sample sizes.  In 
Tables 2, 3a, 3b, 4a and 4b, years are averaged to assure greater statistical 
precision.

Caution must be used when using the estimated median incomes in Appendix Tables 
1a, 1b, 1c, and 1d.  The annual sample size of some states is extremely low.  
Appendix Tables 2a, 2b, 2c, and 2d contain standard errors for the estimated 
median incomes in Appendix Tables 1a, 1b, 1c, and 1d, respectively.  Some of the 
standard errors in these tables are quite large relative to the estimated annual 
median incomes, which means that these estimated annual median incomes are poor 
approximations of the true annual median incomes.  (Appendix Tables 4a, 4b, 4c, 
and 4b contain the size of the sample used to estimate the standard errors for 
the estimated annual median incomes in Appendix Tables 1a, 1b, 1c, and 1d, 
respectively.)

Averaging estimated annual median incomes over several consecutive years, as is 
done in Tables 2, 3a, 3b, 4a and 4b in the text, increases the statistical 
precision of estimated median incomes.  However, the design of the CPS causes a 
problem.  In the March CPS of any given year, approximately half of the 
households were surveyed the previous March, while the remaining households are 
eligible to be surveyed the following March.  

Following Census Bureau guidelines, the formula for the estimated standard error 
for the average of estimated annual median incomes for 1990 and 1989 is one-half 
multiplied by the square root of the following: the standard error of the 
percentage in 1990 squared plus the standard error of the percentage in 1989 
minus the following product 2 multiplied by the correlation coefficient of 1990 
and 1989 multiplied by the standard error of the percentage in 1990 multiplied 
by the standard error of the percentage in 1989. The estimated standard errors 
can be obtained by multiplying the estimated coefficient of variation by the 
estimated percentage and then dividing by 100.  The general formula for 
averaging over more than consecutive years is the reciprocal of the number of 
years multiplied by the square root of the following: the summation of the 
squared standard error of the percentage of each year plus the summation over 
all the consecutive year pairs of the following product: the correlation 
coefficient of a pair of consecutive multiplied by the standard error of the 
first year multiplied by the standard error of the second year.   Appendix 
Tables 2a, 2b, 2c, and 2d contain standard errors for the estimated annual 
median incomes in Appendix Tables 1a, 1b, 1c, and 1d, respectively.  Appendix 
Table 5 contains estimated correlation coefficients for the United States, which 
can be used to approximate this value for a given state. 

ENDNOTES
1. "Economics of Disability Research Report (EDRR) #1: Estimates of the 
Prevalence of Disability covers the period 1981 through 1999," referred to as 
survey years.  "EDRR #2: Estimates of Employment Rates for Persons with a 
disability covers the period 1980 through 1998," referred to as employment 
years.  "EDRR #3: Estimates of Median Household Size-Adjusted Income for Persons 
with a disability covers the period 1980 through 1998," referred to as income 
years.  These differences occur because employment and income in the March 
Current Population Survey are reported for the previous calendar year, while 
disability is reported at the time of the survey.  All three papers are based on 
the March Current Population Survey, 1981 through 1999.

2. Only one person in the household answers questions for all household members.

3. For more a fuller discussion of the CPS, see U.S. Bureau of the Census (1998) 
or http://www.bls.census.gov/cps/.

4. See LaPlante (1993) for a fuller discussion of the statistical accuracy of 
CPS estimates of state populations with a disability in comparison to estimates 
from the Decennial Census and the National Health Interview Survey.

5. Ryscavage (1995) found that these changes influenced the estimation income 
inequality in the United States.

6. Inclusion in the population with a disability is based on the following 
questions: "(62A) Does anyone in this household have a health problem or 
disability which prevents them from working or which limits the kind or amount 
of work they can do?  (62B) If yes to 62A., who is that? (Anyone else?)"  These 
questions are from the 1981 survey.  Note that a single household member answers 
the survey for all household members.  The Census Bureau recodes the survey to 
the individual level, so researchers can generate statistics for individuals.
The use of self-reports of disability is controversial.  Self-perception of a 
disability as captured by this measure can be influenced by social context 
(i.e., barriers and accommodations).  For instance, reports of a work limitation 
may change over time even holding the underlying health condition constant 
because access to accommodation may change one's perception of a disability over 
time.  See Kirchner (1996) for a fuller discussion of this issue and the uses of 
the CPS to analyze "access-oriented" policies.

7. Burkhauser, Daly and Houtenville (2000) use the March CPS and analyze the 
components of income for people with and without a disability.  

8. The CPS data do not provide net-of-tax income information or, prior to 1988, 
the value of non-cash or in-kind benefits or the imputed income from owner-
occupied housing.  All negative sources of income are converted to zero. 

9. Using the square root of household size assumes that the reduction in the 
standard-of-living due to an additional household member diminishes with each 
additional household member.  See Burkhauser, Smeeding and Merz (1996) for a 
discussion of the uses of alternative adjustments for household size in 
comparisons of economic well-being. 

10. People are considered employed if they worked at least 52 hours annually in 
the previous calendar year.

11. The values in rows 5 and 6 of Table 1 values are defined as the median 
household size-adjusted income of those with a disability divided by the median 
household size-adjusted income of those without a disability multiplied by 100.  
The higher the values the closer the median household size-adjusted incomes of 
persons with a disability are to persons without a disability.  For example, a 
relative median household size-adjusted income of 50 percent means that those 
with a disability have one-half the median household size-adjusted income of 
those without a disability.

12. These time periods roughly equate the 1980s and 1990s business cycles.  The 
peak years of the 1980s business cycle were 1979 and 1989.  The peak of the 
1990s business cycle has not yet occurred.  The CPS question used to identify 
the population with a disability did not exist prior to the March 1981 survey, 
thus it is not possible to calculate median incomes for 1979.

REFERENCES

Bound, John, and Richard V. Burkhauser. 1999. "Economic Analysis of Transfer 
Programs Targeted on People with a disability." In Orley C. Ashenfelter and 
David Card (eds.), Handbook of Labor Economics. Volume 3C. Amsterdam: Elsevier 
Science, pp. 3417-3528.

Burkhauser, Richard V., Mary C. Daly, and Andrew J. Houtenville. 2000. "How 
Working-age People with a disability Fared Over the 1990s Business Cycle." 
Ithaca, NY: Research and Rehabilitation Training Center for Economic Research on 
Employment Policy for Persons with Disabilities, Cornell University.

Burkhauser, Richard V., Timothy M. Smeeding, and Joachim Merz. 1996.  "Relative
Inequality and Poverty in Germany and the United States Using Alternative
Equivalency Scales." The Review of Income and Wealth 42(4): 381-400.

Houtenville, Andrew. 2000. "Economics of Disability Research Report #1: 
Estimates of the Prevalence of Disability in the United States by State, 1981 
through 1999." Ithaca, NY: Research and Rehabilitation Training Center for 
Economic Research on Employment Policy for Persons with Disabilities, Cornell 
University.

Houtenville, Andrew. 2000. "Economics of Disability Research Report #2: 
Estimates of Employment Rates for Persons with a disability in the United States 
by State, 1980 through 1998." Ithaca, NY: Research and Rehabilitation Training 
Center for Economic Research on Employment Policy for Persons with a disability, 
Cornell University.

Kirchner, Corinne. 1996. "Looking Under the Street Lamp," Journal of Disability 
Policy Studies 7(1): 78-90.

U.S. Bureau of the Census. 1998. Current Population Survey, March 1998. 
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Commerce. 


Table 1. Median Household Size-Adjusted Income and Relative Household Size-
Adjusted Income of Non-Institutionalized Civilians Aged 25 Through 61 for the 
United States, by Gender and Disability Status, Income Years 1980 through 
1998*a,*b

Group
Men without a Disability*a
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Income Year
1980:  28,508
1981:  27,945
1982:  27,399
1983:  27,949
1984*c:  28,943
1985:  29,470
1986:  30,501
1987:  31,188
1988:  31,819
1989:  31,944
1990:  30,970
1991:  30,474
1992:  30,295
1993*c:  30,098
1994:  30,590
1995:  30,678
1996:  31,189
1997:  31,791
1998:  33,529

Group
Men with a Disability*a
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Income Year
1980:  14,377
1981:  14,773
1982:  13,948
1983:  14,174
1984*c:  14,504
1985:  14,831
1986:  14,993
1987:  16,750
1988:  15,883
1989:  16,565
1990:  15,551
1991:  15,905
1992:  15,639
1993*c:  14,490
1994:  14,605
1995:  15,218
1996:  14,755
1997:  15,476
1998:  15,832

Group
Women without a Disability*a
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Income Year
1980:  25,350
1981:  24,858
1982:  24,486
1983:  25,031
1984*c:  25,894
1985:  26,512
1986:  27,245
1987:  28,457
1988:  28,654
1989:  28,870
1990:  28,137
1991:  27,939
1992:  27,908
1993*c:  27,575
1994:  28,068
1995:  28,243
1996:  28,765
1997:  29,619
1998:  30,413

Group
Women with a Disability*a
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Income Year
1980:  13,527
1981:  13,307
1982:  13,200
1983:  12,658
1984*c:  13,310
1985:  13,356
1986:  12,970
1987:  14,180
1988:  14,188
1989:  14,789
1990:  14,835
1991:  13,975
1992:  13,437
1993*c:  13,061
1994:  14,209
1995:  14,398
1996:  13,458
1997:  14,218
1998:  14,173

Gender
Men
Relative Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*d
Income Year
1980:  50.4
1981:  52.9
1982:  50.9
1983:  50.7
1984*c:  50.1
1985:  50.3
1986:  49.2
1987:  53.7
1988:  49.9
1989:  51.9
1990:  50.2
1991:  52.2
1992:  51.6
1993*c:  48.1
1994:  47.7
1995:  49.6
1996:  47.3
1997:  48.7
1998:  47.2

Gender
Women
Relative Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*d
Income Year
1980:  53.4
1981:  53.5
1982:  53.9
1983:  50.6
1984*c:  51.4
1985:  50.4
1986:  47.6
1987:  49.8
1988:  49.5
1989:  51.2
1990:  52.7
1991:  50.0
1992:  48.1
1993*c:  47.4
1994:  50.6
1995:  51.0
1996:  46.8
1997:  48.0
1998:  46.6

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

d.  The relative median household size-adjusted income is defined as the median 
household size-adjusted income of those with a disability as a percentage of the 
median household size-adjusted income of those without a disability.



Table 2.  Median Household Size-Adjusted Income and Relative Household Size-
Adjusted Income of Non-Institutionalized Civilians Aged 25 through 61 for the 
United States over the 1980s and 1990s and Percentage Changes, by Gender and 
Disability Status*a

Gender
Men

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,567
With a Disability:  15,080
Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*d
51.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,068
With a Disability:  15,275
Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*d
49.2

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998*c,*d (percentages)
-3.7

Gender
Women

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,536
With a Disability:  13,548
Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*d
51.1

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,518
With a Disability:  13,974
Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*d
49.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998*c,*d (percentages)
-4.1

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

d.  The relative median household size-adjusted income is defined as the median 
household size-adjusted income of those with disabilities as a percentage of the 
median household size-adjusted income of those without disabilities.



Table 3a.  Median Household Size-Adjusted Income and Relative Household Size-
Adjusted Income of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men Aged 25 through 61 for the 
United States, and for Each State and the District of Columbia over the Period 
of Income Years 1980 through 1998 and Rankings, by Disability Status*a

Location
United States
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,278
With a Disability:  15,172
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.1
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
--

Location
Utah
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,691
With a Disability:  18,874
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
70.7
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
1

Location
Nevada
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,962
With a Disability:  21,501
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
69.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
2

Location
North Dakota
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,552
With a Disability:  17,573
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
68.8
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
3

Location
Idaho
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,459
With a Disability:  16,561
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
67.7
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
4

Location
South Dakota
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,229
With a Disability:  15,952
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
65.8
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
5

Location
Arizona
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,385
With a Disability:  18,511
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
65.2
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
6

Location
Connecticut
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  38,376
With a Disability:  24,871
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
64.8
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
7

Location
Minnesota
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,124
With a Disability:  20,524
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
63.9
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
8

Location
New Hampshire
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,842
With a Disability:  20,890
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
63.6
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
9

Location
Montana
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,453
With a Disability:  16,103
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
63.3
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
10

Location
Wyoming
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,314
With a Disability:  17,457
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
61.7
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
11

Location
Washington
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,161
With a Disability:  19,795
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
61.6
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
12

Location
Iowa
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,240
With a Disability:  16,413
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
60.3
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
13

Location
Alaska
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  37,937
With a Disability:  22,568
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
59.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
14

Location
Kansas
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,070
With a Disability:  17,220
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
59.2
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
15

Location
Oregon
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,390
With a Disability:  17,193
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
16

Location
Nebraska
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,091
With a Disability:  15,812
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
17

Location
Wisconsin
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,804
With a Disability:  17,482
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.8
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
18

Location
Florida
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,845
With a Disability:  15,746
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
19

Location
Delaware
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,396
With a Disability:  18,312
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
20

Location
Vermont
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,870
With a Disability:  16,274
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
21

Location
Hawaii
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  34,328
With a Disability:  19,263
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.1
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
22

Location
Maine
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,041
With a Disability:  15,166
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.1
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
23

Location
New Jersey
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  36,771
With a Disability:  20,524
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.8
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
24

Location
Indiana
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,843
With a Disability:  15,532
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.8
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
25

Location
Colorado
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,868
With a Disability:  17,982
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.7
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
26

Location
Maryland
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  36,405
With a Disability:  19,749
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.2
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
27

Location
North Carolina
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,830
With a Disability:  14,834
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.3
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
28

Location
Arkansas
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,824
With a Disability:  12,058
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.8
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
29

Location
Mississippi
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,044
With a Disability:  12,107
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
30

Location
Massachusetts
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  36,430
With a Disability:  19,011
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.2
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
31

Location
Illinois
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,682
With a Disability:  17,051
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.2
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
32

Location
California
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,323
With a Disability:  16,626
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
51.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
33

Location
Rhode Island
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,051
With a Disability:  16,366
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
51.1
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
34

Location
Pennsylvania
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,821
With a Disability:  15,190
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.9
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
35

Location
Texas
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,400
With a Disability:  14,076
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.6
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
36

Location
Michigan
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,994
With a Disability:  15,793
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
37

Location
Ohio
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,691
With a Disability:  15,075
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.1
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
38

Location
West Virginia
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,614
With a Disability:  11,577
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.0
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
39

Location
Oklahoma
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,737
With a Disability:  13,108
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.0
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
40

Location
New Mexico
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,376
With a Disability:  11,865
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.7
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
41

Location
Missouri
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,777
With a Disability:  13,774
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
47.9
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
42

Location
Georgia
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,233
With a Disability:  13,706
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.9
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
43

Location
New York
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,675
With a Disability:  14,759
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.6
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
44

Location
Virginia
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,267
With a Disability:  15,499
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.6
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
45

Location
Alabama
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,513
With a Disability:  11,840
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
46

Location
South Carolina
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,587
With a Disability:  12,087
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
47

Location
Tennessee
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,838
With a Disability:  11,700
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.3
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
48

Location
Kentucky
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,864
With a Disability:  12,118
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.1
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
49

Location
Louisiana
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,708
With a Disability:  11,856
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
44.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
50

Location
DC
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  34,412
With a Disability:  12,895
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
37.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
51

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

d.  The relative median household size-adjusted income is defined as the median 
household size-adjusted income of those with disabilities as a percentage of the 
median household size-adjusted income of those without disabilities.



Table 3b.  Median Household Size-Adjusted Income and Relative Household Size-
Adjusted Income of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women Aged 25 through 61 for 
the United States, and for Each State and the District of Columbia over the 
Period of Income Years 1980 through 1998 and Rankings, by Disability Status*a

Location
United States
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,475
With a Disability:  13,750
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.0
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
--

Location
North Dakota
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,795
With a Disability:  18,110
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
76.1
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
1

Location
Utah
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,636
With a Disability:  17,502
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
71.0
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
2

Location
Nevada
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,069
With a Disability:  19,766
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
70.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
3

Location
South Dakota
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,611
With a Disability:  15,164
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
67.1
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
4

Location
Idaho
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,099
With a Disability:  15,374
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
66.6
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
5

Location
Wisconsin
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,462
With a Disability:  18,850
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
66.2
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
6

Location
New Hampshire
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,845
With a Disability:  20,386
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
66.1
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
7

Location
Nebraska
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,333
With a Disability:  16,509
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
65.2
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
8

Location
Iowa
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,293
With a Disability:  16,185
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
64.0
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
9

Location
Wyoming
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,512
With a Disability:  16,805
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
63.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
10

Location
Arizona
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,942
With a Disability:  16,412
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
63.3
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
11

Location
Minnesota
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,682
With a Disability:  18,697
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
63.0
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
12

Location
Connecticut
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  34,817
With a Disability:  21,699
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
62.3
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
13

Location
Montana
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,126
With a Disability:  13,987
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
60.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
14

Location
Alaska
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  34,230
With a Disability:  20,629
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
60.3
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
15

Location
Hawaii
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,144
With a Disability:  18,395
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
59.1
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
16

Location
New Jersey
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,782
With a Disability:  19,723
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
17

Location
Maine
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,168
With a Disability:  14,563
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
57.9
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
18

Location
Oregon
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,351
With a Disability:  15,819
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
57.8
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
19

Location
Washington
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,786
With a Disability:  16,935
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.9
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
20

Location
Rhode Island
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,504
With a Disability:  16,691
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.6
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
21

Location
Delaware
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,198
With a Disability:  16,383
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.1
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
22

Location
Kansas
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,252
With a Disability:  15,119
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
23

Location
California
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,357
With a Disability:  16,259
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
24

Location
New Mexico
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  21,824
With a Disability:  12,058
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.3
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
25

Location
Florida
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,983
With a Disability:  13,683
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.8
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
26

Location
Missouri
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,463
With a Disability:  14,462
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.6
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
27

Location
Texas
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,805
With a Disability:  14,039
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
28

Location
Maryland
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,246
With a Disability:  18,070
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
29

Location
Vermont
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,718
With a Disability:  14,651
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.9
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
30

Location
Colorado
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,480
With a Disability:  15,975
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
31

Location
Indiana
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,454
With a Disability:  13,338
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
32

Location
South Carolina
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,507
With a Disability:  11,937
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.8
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
33

Location
Pennsylvania
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,281
With a Disability:  13,753
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
34

Location
Georgia
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,495
With a Disability:  13,180
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.7
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
35

Location
North Carolina
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,616
With a Disability:  12,719
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.7
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
36

Location
Arkansas
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  20,742
With a Disability:  10,290
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.6
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
37

Location
Michigan
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,017
With a Disability:  14,321
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
38

Location
West Virginia
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  20,682
With a Disability:  10,188
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.3
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
39

Location
Ohio
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,818
With a Disability:  13,574
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.8
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
40

Location
Mississippi
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  19,864
With a Disability:  9,632
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
41

Location
Virginia
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,292
With a Disability:  14,608
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.2
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
42

Location
Massachusetts
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,052
With a Disability:  15,716
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
47.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
43

Location
Tennessee
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,035
With a Disability:  10,925
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
47.4
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
44

Location
Oklahoma
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,557
With a Disability:  11,523
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.9
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
45

Location
Louisiana
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,920
With a Disability:  10,437
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.5
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
46

Location
Alabama
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,673
With a Disability:  10,260
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.3
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
47

Location
Illinois
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,542
With a Disability:  13,049
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
44.2
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
48

Location
Kentucky
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,642
With a Disability:  10,405
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
44.0
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
49

Location
New York
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,138
With a Disability:  12,373
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
44.0
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
50

Location
DC
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,905
With a Disability:  11,358
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
39.3
Ranked by Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income
51

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

d.  The relative median household size-adjusted income is defined as the median 
household size-adjusted income of those with disabilities as a percentage of the 
median household size-adjusted income of those without disabilities.



Table 4a.  Men: Median Household Size-Adjusted Income and Relative Household 
Size-Adjusted Income of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men Aged 25 through 61 
for the United States, and for Each State and the District of Columbia over the 
1980s and 1990s, Percentage Changes and Rankings, by Disability Status*a

Location
United States

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,567
With a Disability:  15,080
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
51.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,068
With a Disability:  15,275
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.2

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-3.7**
Ranked by Percentage Change
--

Location
Montana

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,287
With a Disability:  14,865
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.8

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,637
With a Disability:  17,478
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
68.2

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
14.8
Ranked by Percentage Change
1

Location
Arizona

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,931
With a Disability:  17,746
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
61.3

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,778
With a Disability:  19,361
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
69.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
12.8
Ranked by Percentage Change
2

Location
Maryland

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  35,924
With a Disability:  18,335
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
51.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  36,939
With a Disability:  21,321
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
57.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
12.3
Ranked by Percentage Change
3

Location
Wisconsin

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,997
With a Disability:  15,505
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.5

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,811
With a Disability:  19,678
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
60.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
11.5
Ranked by Percentage Change
4

Location
Mississippi

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,217
With a Disability:  11,026
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,962
With a Disability:  13,309
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
11.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
5

Location
Utah

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,896
With a Disability:  17,306
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
66.8

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,575
With a Disability:  20,616
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
74.8

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
11.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
6

Location
Alabama

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,258
With a Disability:  10,636
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
43.8

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,906
With a Disability:  13,178
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
11.1
Ranked by Percentage Change
7

Location
Hawaii

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,639
With a Disability:  17,418
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  36,205
With a Disability:  21,313
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
9.8
Ranked by Percentage Change
8

Location
New Jersey

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  35,533
With a Disability:  18,978
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  38,147
With a Disability:  22,242
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.3

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
8.8
Ranked by Percentage Change
9

Location
New Hampshire

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,854
With a Disability:  19,490
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
61.2

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,939
With a Disability:  22,445
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
66.1

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
7.8
Ranked by Percentage Change
10

Location
Oregon

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,303
With a Disability:  15,952
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,598
With a Disability:  18,572
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
60.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
7.4
Ranked by Percentage Change
11

Location
Washington

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,816
With a Disability:  18,294
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
59.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,655
With a Disability:  21,464
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
63.8

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
7.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
12

Location
Louisiana

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,470
With a Disability:  11,380
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
43.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,973
With a Disability:  12,386
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
6.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
13

Location
Alaska

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  37,870
With a Disability:  21,840
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
57.7

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  38,011
With a Disability:  23,376
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
61.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
6.4
Ranked by Percentage Change
14

Location
New York

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,920
With a Disability:  14,063
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.5

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,515
With a Disability:  15,532
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
47.8

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
4.9
Ranked by Percentage Change
15

Location
Oklahoma

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,057
With a Disability:  13,054
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.2

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,382
With a Disability:  13,167
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
3.4
Ranked by Percentage Change
16

Location
Texas

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,567
With a Disability:  13,953
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.8

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,214
With a Disability:  14,213
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.4

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
3.1
Ranked by Percentage Change
17

Location
Pennsylvania

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,745
With a Disability:  14,484
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,015
With a Disability:  15,974
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
51.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
2.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
18

Location
Colorado

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,659
With a Disability:  17,734
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.3

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,102
With a Disability:  18,257
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.2

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
1.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
19

Location
California

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,666
With a Disability:  16,778
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
51.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,942
With a Disability:  16,457
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
51.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
0.3
Ranked by Percentage Change
20

Location
North Carolina

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,755
With a Disability:  14,243
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.2

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,024
With a Disability:  15,491
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.4

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
0.3
Ranked by Percentage Change
21

Location
New Mexico

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,125
With a Disability:  11,734
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,655
With a Disability:  12,011
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
0.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
22

Location
Delaware

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,370
With a Disability:  17,765
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,536
With a Disability:  18,920
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.4

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-0.4
Ranked by Percentage Change
23

Location
Minnesota

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,763
With a Disability:  19,712
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
64.1

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,637
With a Disability:  21,427
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
63.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-0.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
24

Location
Indiana

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,871
With a Disability:  15,044
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,924
With a Disability:  16,075
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.6

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-0.7
Ranked by Percentage Change
25

Location
Iowa

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,059
With a Disability:  15,787
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
60.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,553
With a Disability:  17,109
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
59.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-1.1
Ranked by Percentage Change
26

Location
Missouri

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,869
With a Disability:  13,419
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.1

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,784
With a Disability:  14,168
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
47.6

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-1.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
27

Location
Maine

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,286
With a Disability:  14,963
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.9

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,881
With a Disability:  15,390
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.2

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-3.1
Ranked by Percentage Change
28

Location
Tennessee

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,667
With a Disability:  11,364
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.1

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,139
With a Disability:  12,074
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
44.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-3.5
Ranked by Percentage Change
29

Location
North Dakota

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,578
With a Disability:  17,258
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
70.2

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,635
With a Disability:  17,923
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
67.3

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-4.3
Ranked by Percentage Change
30

Location
South Carolina

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,044
With a Disability:  11,710
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.8

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,302
With a Disability:  12,507
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
44.2

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-5.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
31

Location
Georgia

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,306
With a Disability:  13,661
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.3

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,262
With a Disability:  13,755
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-6.0
Ranked by Percentage Change
32

Location
Wyoming

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,004
With a Disability:  18,381
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
63.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,548
With a Disability:  16,431
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
59.6

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-6.1
Ranked by Percentage Change
33

Location
Nebraska

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,161
With a Disability:  15,733
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
60.1

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,125
With a Disability:  15,899
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-6.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
34

Location
Virginia

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,939
With a Disability:  15,830
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.1

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,632
With a Disability:  15,132
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-6.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
35

Location
Idaho

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,260
With a Disability:  16,270
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
69.9

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,792
With a Disability:  16,884
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
65.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-6.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
36

Location
Arkansas

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  21,876
With a Disability:  12,008
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.9

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,877
With a Disability:  12,114
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-7.9
Ranked by Percentage Change
37

Location
Vermont

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,272
With a Disability:  16,588
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.7

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,535
With a Disability:  15,926
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-8.4
Ranked by Percentage Change
38

Location
Florida

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,114
With a Disability:  15,988
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
59.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,657
With a Disability:  15,477
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-8.8
Ranked by Percentage Change
39

Location
DC

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,464
With a Disability:  13,252
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
39.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  35,465
With a Disability:  12,498
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
35.2

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-11.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
40

Location
Nevada

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,522
With a Disability:  22,415
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
73.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,451
With a Disability:  20,486
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
65.1

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-12.0
Ranked by Percentage Change
41

Location
Ohio

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,826
With a Disability:  15,560
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.2

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,652
With a Disability:  14,535
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-12.7**
Ranked by Percentage Change
42

Location
South Dakota

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,811
With a Disability:  16,002
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
70.2

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,803
With a Disability:  15,897
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
61.6

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-13.0**
Ranked by Percentage Change
43

Location
Rhode Island

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,374
With a Disability:  16,584
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,915
With a Disability:  16,124
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
47.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-13.8
Ranked by Percentage Change
44

Location
Illinois

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,785
With a Disability:  17,880
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.3

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,679
With a Disability:  16,130
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
47.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-16.1**
Ranked by Percentage Change
45

Location
Massachusetts

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  35,383
With a Disability:  20,018
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  37,594
With a Disability:  17,893
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
47.6

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-17.2**
Ranked by Percentage Change
46

Location
West Virginia

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,580
With a Disability:  12,165
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.9

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,762
With a Disability:  10,923
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
44.1

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-19.9**
Ranked by Percentage Change
47

Location
Kansas

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,657
With a Disability:  18,732
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
65.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,528
With a Disability:  15,541
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.6

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-21.6**
Ranked by Percentage Change
48

Location
Michigan

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,794
With a Disability:  17,192
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.8

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,326
With a Disability:  14,238
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
42.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-26.6**
Ranked by Percentage Change
49

Location
Connecticut

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  37,643
With a Disability:  27,917
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
74.2

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  39,191
With a Disability:  21,487
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.8

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-30.0**
Ranked by Percentage Change
50

Location
Kentucky

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,003
With a Disability:  13,212
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.8

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,932
With a Disability:  10,901
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
37.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-33.5**
Ranked by Percentage Change
51

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1980 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

d.  The relative median household size-adjusted income is defined as the median 
household size-adjusted income of those with disabilities as a percentage of the 
median household size-adjusted income of those without disabilities.  The 
percentage change is the difference between the two averages divided by the 
average of the two averages multiplied by 100.  Double asterisks (**) note 
locations where difference between those without and with a disability in the 
change the average median income from  period to period is statistically 
different than zero, assuming a 90 percent confidence level.



Table 4b.  Women: Median Household Size-Adjusted Income and Relative Household 
Size-Adjusted Income of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women Aged 25 through 61 
for the United States, and for Each State and the District of Columbia over the 
1980s and 1990s, Percentage Changes and Rankings, by Disability Status*a


Location
United States

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,536
With a Disability:  13,548
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
51.1

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,518
With a Disability:  13,974
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-4.1**
Ranked by Percentage Change
--

Location
Mississippi

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  19,653
With a Disability:  8,561
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
43.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  20,099
With a Disability:  10,823
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.8

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
21.1
Ranked by Percentage Change
1

Location
DC

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,371
With a Disability:  10,671
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
37.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,499
With a Disability:  12,122
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
41.1

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
8.8
Ranked by Percentage Change
2

Location
Virginia

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,447
With a Disability:  13,603
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.2

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,232
With a Disability:  15,726
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.4

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
8.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
3

Location
Utah

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,336
With a Disability:  15,934
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
68.3

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,080
With a Disability:  19,244
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
73.8

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
7.8
Ranked by Percentage Change
4

Location
Maine

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,635
With a Disability:  13,367
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,873
With a Disability:  15,892
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
59.1

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
4.5
Ranked by Percentage Change
5

Location
Delaware

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,435
With a Disability:  15,666
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.1

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,045
With a Disability:  17,180
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
57.2

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
3.7
Ranked by Percentage Change
6

Location
Missouri

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,339
With a Disability:  13,594
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,711
With a Disability:  15,425
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
3.7
Ranked by Percentage Change
7

Location
Illinois

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,713
With a Disability:  12,460
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
43.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,465
With a Disability:  13,704
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
3.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
8

Location
South Carolina

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,114
With a Disability:  11,079
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.1

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,054
With a Disability:  12,891
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
51.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
2.7
Ranked by Percentage Change
9

Location
Louisiana

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,668
With a Disability:  10,194
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,199
With a Disability:  10,707
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.2

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
2.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
10

Location
Massachusetts

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,626
With a Disability:  14,866
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
47.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  34,636
With a Disability:  16,659
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.1

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
2.3
Ranked by Percentage Change
11

Location
California

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,963
With a Disability:  15,863
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.8

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,795
With a Disability:  16,698
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
2.3
Ranked by Percentage Change
12

Location
Oregon

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,372
With a Disability:  15,202
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
57.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,438
With a Disability:  16,504
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
0.7
Ranked by Percentage Change
13

Location
Colorado

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,365
With a Disability:  15,349
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.3

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,719
With a Disability:  16,671
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.6

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
0.5
Ranked by Percentage Change
14

Location
New York

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,352
With a Disability:  12,036
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
44.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,013
With a Disability:  12,748
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
43.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-0.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
15

Location
New Jersey

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,225
With a Disability:  18,829
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  35,512
With a Disability:  20,717
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.3

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-0.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
16

Location
South Dakota

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  21,103
With a Disability:  14,225
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
67.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,287
With a Disability:  16,207
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
66.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-1.0
Ranked by Percentage Change
17

Location
Alabama

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  21,066
With a Disability:  9,595
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.5

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,459
With a Disability:  10,999
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-1.3
Ranked by Percentage Change
18

Location
Michigan

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,839
With a Disability:  13,873
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.8

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,326
With a Disability:  14,819
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-2.0
Ranked by Percentage Change
19

Location
Vermont

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,399
With a Disability:  14,106
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,184
With a Disability:  15,257
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.3

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-2.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
20

Location
Texas

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,766
With a Disability:  14,167
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,848
With a Disability:  13,896
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.8

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-2.3
Ranked by Percentage Change
21

Location
Georgia

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,794
With a Disability:  12,979
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.3

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,274
With a Disability:  13,403
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.1

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-2.4
Ranked by Percentage Change
22

Location
Oklahoma

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,699
With a Disability:  11,780
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
47.7

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,400
With a Disability:  11,238
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.1

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-3.5
Ranked by Percentage Change
23

Location
North Carolina

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,175
With a Disability:  12,252
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
50.7

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,216
With a Disability:  13,239
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.6

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-4.1
Ranked by Percentage Change
24

Location
Arizona

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,894
With a Disability:  16,717
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
64.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,996
With a Disability:  16,072
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
61.8

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-4.3
Ranked by Percentage Change
25

Location
New Mexico

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  21,151
With a Disability:  11,970
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,572
With a Disability:  12,156
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-5.0
Ranked by Percentage Change
26

Location
Maryland

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,100
With a Disability:  17,930
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.9

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  34,520
With a Disability:  18,226
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.8

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-5.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
27

Location
Nevada

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,900
With a Disability:  19,518
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
72.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,367
With a Disability:  20,041
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
68.2

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-6.1
Ranked by Percentage Change
28

Location
Idaho

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  21,606
With a Disability:  14,857
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
68.8

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,757
With a Disability:  15,948
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
64.4

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-6.5
Ranked by Percentage Change
29

Location
Tennessee

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,027
With a Disability:  10,789
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,156
With a Disability:  11,075
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.8

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-6.6
Ranked by Percentage Change
30

Location
Florida

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,876
With a Disability:  13,514
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,213
With a Disability:  13,871
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-6.7
Ranked by Percentage Change
31

Location
Washington

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  28,224
With a Disability:  16,714
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
59.2

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,520
With a Disability:  17,180
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-8.3
Ranked by Percentage Change
32

Location
Arkansas

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  19,544
With a Disability:  10,141
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
51.9

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,072
With a Disability:  10,455
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
47.4

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-9.1
Ranked by Percentage Change
33

Location
Hawaii

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,451
With a Disability:  18,204
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
61.8

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,025
With a Disability:  18,606
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.3

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-9.3
Ranked by Percentage Change
34

Location
Ohio

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,733
With a Disability:  13,649
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
51.1

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,023
With a Disability:  13,491
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-9.4**
Ranked by Percentage Change
35

Location
Wisconsin

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,740
With a Disability:  18,624
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
69.7

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  30,375
With a Disability:  19,100
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
62.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-10.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
36

Location
Indiana

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,373
With a Disability:  13,738
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,655
With a Disability:  12,893
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
48.4

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-15.3**
Ranked by Percentage Change
37

Location
Wyoming

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,070
With a Disability:  18,411
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
68.0

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,891
With a Disability:  15,021
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-15.9
Ranked by Percentage Change
38

Location
Montana

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,782
With a Disability:  14,849
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
65.2

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,508
With a Disability:  13,029
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.4

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-16.2**
Ranked by Percentage Change
39

Location
Pennsylvania

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,733
With a Disability:  14,042
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,000
With a Disability:  13,432
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
46.3

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-16.4**
Ranked by Percentage Change
40

Location
New Hampshire

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  29,318
With a Disability:  21,090
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
71.9

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  32,542
With a Disability:  19,605
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
60.2

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-17.7
Ranked by Percentage Change
41

Location
West Virginia

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  19,394
With a Disability:  10,521
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
54.3

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,113
With a Disability:  9,817
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
44.4

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-20.0
Ranked by Percentage Change
42

Location
Kansas

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,666
With a Disability:  16,238
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
60.9

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,904
With a Disability:  13,876
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-20.2
Ranked by Percentage Change
43

Location
Alaska

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,890
With a Disability:  22,525
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
66.5

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  34,608
With a Disability:  18,522
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
53.5

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-21.6**
Ranked by Percentage Change
44

Location
Nebraska

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,236
With a Disability:  17,503
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
72.2

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,552
With a Disability:  15,404
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
58.0

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-21.8**
Ranked by Percentage Change
45

Location
North Dakota

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,054
With a Disability:  19,481
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
84.5

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  24,620
With a Disability:  16,587
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
67.4

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-22.6**
Ranked by Percentage Change
46

Location
Minnesota

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,895
With a Disability:  19,616
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
70.3

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,669
With a Disability:  17,676
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
55.8

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-23.0**
Ranked by Percentage Change
47

Location
Iowa

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  23,946
With a Disability:  17,108
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
71.4

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  26,790
With a Disability:  15,159
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
56.6

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-23.2**
Ranked by Percentage Change
48

Location
Kentucky

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  22,062
With a Disability:  10,918
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
49.5

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  25,399
With a Disability:  9,835
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
38.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-24.4**
Ranked by Percentage Change
49

Location
Connecticut

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  33,748
With a Disability:  24,167
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
71.6

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  36,005
With a Disability:  18,957
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
52.7

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-30.5**
Ranked by Percentage Change
50

Location
Rhode Island

Period:  Income Years 1980-1989
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  27,933
With a Disability:  18,791
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
67.3

Period:  Income Years 1990-1998*c
Median Household Size-Adjusted Income (dollars)*b
Without a Disability:  31,249
With a Disability:  14,359
Relative Median Houeshold Size-Adjusted Income (percentages)*c
45.9

Percentage Change in Relative Household Size-Adjusted Income from 1980-1989 to 
1990-1998 (Percentages)*c,*d
-37.7**
Ranked by Percentage Change
51

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1980 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

d.  The relative median household size-adjusted income is defined as the median 
household size-adjusted income of those with disabilities as a percentage of the 
median household size-adjusted income of those without disabilities.  The 
percentage change is the difference between the two averages divided by the 
average of the two averages multiplied by 100.  Double asterisks (**) note 
locations where difference between those without and with a disability in the 
change the average median income from  period to period is statistically 
different than zero, assuming a 90 percent confidence level.



Appendix Table 1a.  Median Household Size-Adjusted Income of Non-
Institutionalized Civilian Men without a Disability Aged 25 Through 61 for the 
United States, and for Each State and the District of Columbia, Income Years 
1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a,*b

Group
United States
Income Year
1980:  28,508
1981:  27,945
1982:  27,399
1983:  27,949
1984*c:  28,943
1985:  29,470
1986:  30,501
1987:  31,188
1988:  31,819
1989:  31,944
1990:  30,970
1991:  30,474
1992:  30,295
1993*c:  30,098
1994:  30,590
1995:  30,678
1996:  31,189
1997:  31,791
1998:  33,529

Group
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  24,354
1981:  23,131
1982:  22,846
1983:  24,568
1984*c:  23,949
1985:  22,941
1986:  26,144
1987:  26,511
1988:  23,163
1989:  24,977
1990:  23,811
1991:  24,411
1992:  23,122
1993*c:  26,051
1994:  27,107
1995:  26,659
1996:  29,968
1997:  30,517
1998:  30,510

Group
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  41,124
1981:  39,305
1982:  37,821
1983:  36,875
1984*c:  38,406
1985:  37,769
1986:  35,228
1987:  38,155
1988:  35,891
1989:  38,123
1990:  36,932
1991:  39,893
1992:  38,297
1993*c:  38,489
1994:  38,698
1995:  37,778
1996:  37,612
1997:  36,727
1998:  37,675

Group
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  27,695
1981:  28,525
1982:  29,327
1983:  25,904
1984*c:  27,372
1985:  30,995
1986:  28,799
1987:  29,839
1988:  31,000
1989:  29,855
1990:  29,634
1991:  29,780
1992:  26,314
1993*c:  26,933
1994:  27,703
1995:  26,670
1996:  26,268
1997:  26,302
1998:  30,394

Group
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  22,451
1981:  21,562
1982:  20,439
1983:  19,640
1984*c:  21,175
1985:  22,391
1986:  22,325
1987:  22,604
1988:  22,642
1989:  23,528
1990:  23,085
1991:  23,935
1992:  23,478
1993*c:  21,754
1994:  24,524
1995:  25,009
1996:  23,699
1997:  23,277
1998:  26,136

Group
California
Income Year
1980:  32,151
1981:  31,091
1982:  30,183
1983:  31,201
1984*c:  32,171
1985:  32,882
1986:  34,319
1987:  34,381
1988:  33,410
1989:  34,868
1990:  33,125
1991:  32,585
1992:  31,664
1993*c:  30,457
1994:  31,951
1995:  31,399
1996:  31,589
1997:  31,511
1998:  33,193

Group
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  30,375
1981:  32,965
1982:  31,474
1983:  33,261
1984*c:  32,636
1985:  32,949
1986:  34,088
1987:  32,866
1988:  33,807
1989:  32,163
1990:  29,933
1991:  32,284
1992:  32,511
1993*c:  33,581
1994:  32,522
1995:  32,086
1996:  32,923
1997:  34,600
1998:  37,477

Group
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  31,652
1981:  34,069
1982:  34,458
1983:  34,140
1984*c:  37,653
1985:  39,746
1986:  40,767
1987:  38,768
1988:  39,613
1989:  45,563
1990:  40,534
1991:  38,977
1992:  38,798
1993*c:  37,670
1994:  38,164
1995:  37,690
1996:  38,933
1997:  40,114
1998:  41,839

Group
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  29,353
1981:  28,948
1982:  30,785
1983:  28,969
1984*c:  29,891
1985:  29,351
1986:  31,830
1987:  34,574
1988:  36,573
1989:  33,424
1990:  33,229
1991:  33,502
1992:  33,607
1993*c:  30,739
1994:  33,943
1995:  33,370
1996:  33,768
1997:  34,423
1998:  35,243

Group
DC
Income Year
1980:  28,704
1981:  28,689
1982:  30,486
1983:  29,840
1984*c:  31,646
1985:  32,939
1986:  36,883
1987:  40,860
1988:  40,645
1989:  33,947
1990:  33,512
1991:  36,100
1992:  34,804
1993*c:  30,860
1994:  32,127
1995:  34,684
1996:  36,360
1997:  35,925
1998:  44,812

Group
Florida
Income Year
1980:  25,252
1981:  25,103
1982:  23,889
1983:  24,922
1984*c:  26,043
1985:  27,637
1986:  28,394
1987:  30,239
1988:  30,367
1989:  29,293
1990:  27,750
1991:  28,010
1992:  28,509
1993*c:  28,201
1994:  28,464
1995:  27,000
1996:  28,790
1997:  29,425
1998:  31,766

Group
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  29,033
1981:  26,434
1982:  24,628
1983:  25,619
1984*c:  25,596
1985:  27,934
1986:  30,007
1987:  30,883
1988:  32,208
1989:  30,722
1990:  29,523
1991:  28,085
1992:  30,605
1993*c:  30,051
1994:  28,575
1995:  29,636
1996:  30,901
1997:  32,834
1998:  32,151

Group
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  31,331
1981:  29,821
1982:  28,090
1983:  31,247
1984*c:  31,650
1985:  30,497
1986:  32,853
1987:  36,445
1988:  35,379
1989:  39,075
1990:  41,115
1991:  36,758
1992:  37,956
1993*c:  36,082
1994:  34,096
1995:  36,022
1996:  35,309
1997:  33,607
1998:  34,904

Group
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  22,140
1981:  23,116
1982:  21,996
1983:  22,944
1984*c:  23,154
1985:  21,546
1986:  22,643
1987:  24,274
1988:  25,185
1989:  25,605
1990:  24,206
1991:  23,077
1992:  23,871
1993*c:  26,448
1994:  27,497
1995:  26,026
1996:  25,712
1997:  27,288
1998:  28,000

Group
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  31,691
1981:  31,582
1982:  31,757
1983:  30,075
1984*c:  30,008
1985:  29,966
1986:  31,845
1987:  33,045
1988:  34,249
1989:  33,631
1990:  32,854
1991:  32,861
1992:  32,040
1993*c:  30,840
1994:  34,221
1995:  34,390
1996:  35,018
1997:  34,715
1998:  36,170

Group
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  26,508
1981:  24,639
1982:  25,360
1983:  25,637
1984*c:  26,957
1985:  27,063
1986:  26,770
1987:  25,487
1988:  30,253
1989:  30,032
1990:  29,942
1991:  26,506
1992:  28,804
1993*c:  28,916
1994:  27,448
1995:  28,403
1996:  29,838
1997:  29,902
1998:  30,559

Group
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  27,329
1981:  26,758
1982:  25,559
1983:  24,663
1984*c:  25,249
1985:  24,912
1986:  26,138
1987:  26,183
1988:  27,005
1989:  26,792
1990:  27,156
1991:  27,468
1992:  27,091
1993*c:  26,739
1994:  29,751
1995:  29,040
1996:  29,177
1997:  29,442
1998:  31,113

Group
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  28,970
1981:  27,527
1982:  26,039
1983:  26,458
1984*c:  28,843
1985:  28,217
1986:  28,666
1987:  30,035
1988:  31,488
1989:  30,328
1990:  30,033
1991:  28,402
1992:  27,972
1993*c:  28,517
1994:  27,928
1995:  28,228
1996:  31,249
1997:  31,554
1998:  31,870

Group
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  26,127
1981:  24,906
1982:  25,063
1983:  22,963
1984*c:  21,875
1985:  24,196
1986:  24,082
1987:  25,486
1988:  26,832
1989:  28,502
1990:  27,531
1991:  27,919
1992:  27,645
1993*c:  28,997
1994:  27,388
1995:  27,226
1996:  30,412
1997:  31,427
1998:  31,848

Group
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  25,262
1981:  26,314
1982:  26,182
1983:  25,447
1984*c:  25,168
1985:  25,704
1986:  29,811
1987:  29,894
1988:  24,888
1989:  26,027
1990:  26,098
1991:  24,286
1992:  25,490
1993*c:  26,866
1994:  26,405
1995:  26,334
1996:  27,411
1997:  29,958
1998:  29,907

Group
Maine
Income Year
1980:  24,702
1981:  23,434
1982:  23,094
1983:  23,927
1984*c:  26,705
1985:  25,993
1986:  26,695
1987:  28,803
1988:  30,349
1989:  29,157
1990:  28,803
1991:  28,674
1992:  26,281
1993*c:  25,381
1994:  27,220
1995:  27,187
1996:  29,588
1997:  28,336
1998:  29,458

Group
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  33,791
1981:  34,051
1982:  31,712
1983:  34,991
1984*c:  37,052
1985:  34,691
1986:  35,565
1987:  40,586
1988:  38,220
1989:  38,581
1990:  42,063
1991:  37,587
1992:  34,855
1993*c:  36,277
1994:  33,206
1995:  35,640
1996:  38,452
1997:  35,874
1998:  38,500

Group
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  29,871
1981:  31,064
1982:  30,458
1983:  33,741
1984*c:  33,766
1985:  35,326
1986:  37,007
1987:  39,160
1988:  41,127
1989:  42,313
1990:  40,036
1991:  36,687
1992:  37,445
1993*c:  35,589
1994:  38,322
1995:  36,357
1996:  36,564
1997:  39,411
1998:  37,933

Group
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  30,770
1981:  29,647
1982:  27,951
1983:  27,308
1984*c:  29,348
1985:  30,787
1986:  31,975
1987:  33,042
1988:  33,428
1989:  33,687
1990:  32,201
1991:  31,733
1992:  32,081
1993*c:  32,754
1994:  32,083
1995:  35,667
1996:  35,025
1997:  33,750
1998:  34,641

Group
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  30,168
1981:  29,435
1982:  27,472
1983:  28,232
1984*c:  30,819
1985:  29,942
1986:  33,451
1987:  33,283
1988:  31,176
1989:  33,650
1990:  32,427
1991:  31,603
1992:  31,528
1993*c:  31,120
1994:  33,328
1995:  34,501
1996:  33,629
1997:  35,544
1998:  39,049

Group
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  21,761
1981:  22,350
1982:  21,978
1983:  21,989
1984*c:  20,853
1985:  21,360
1986:  21,639
1987:  22,463
1988:  22,766
1989:  25,014
1990:  21,843
1991:  21,751
1992:  20,654
1993*c:  26,067
1994:  27,016
1995:  23,467
1996:  24,932
1997:  23,374
1998:  26,558

Group
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  26,406
1981:  26,439
1982:  25,647
1983:  27,142
1984*c:  27,623
1985:  26,632
1986:  29,976
1987:  28,932
1988:  31,039
1989:  28,858
1990:  27,924
1991:  28,966
1992:  28,498
1993*c:  29,839
1994:  27,418
1995:  31,437
1996:  30,118
1997:  31,482
1998:  32,378

Group
Montana
Income Year
1980:  27,017
1981:  26,140
1982:  22,980
1983:  22,678
1984*c:  23,910
1985:  25,496
1986:  26,399
1987:  25,715
1988:  25,663
1989:  26,868
1990:  23,572
1991:  25,790
1992:  26,379
1993*c:  26,442
1994:  25,188
1995:  25,668
1996:  25,616
1997:  25,810
1998:  26,271

Group
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  27,032
1981:  25,421
1982:  25,253
1983:  23,696
1984*c:  24,839
1985:  25,252
1986:  25,944
1987:  27,981
1988:  28,166
1989:  28,022
1990:  27,271
1991:  27,081
1992:  26,089
1993*c:  26,769
1994:  28,308
1995:  27,594
1996:  29,144
1997:  30,782
1998:  30,087

Group
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  31,034
1981:  30,022
1982:  29,207
1983:  30,311
1984*c:  29,741
1985:  29,994
1986:  31,936
1987:  31,150
1988:  29,757
1989:  32,069
1990:  31,235
1991:  32,818
1992:  29,810
1993*c:  31,906
1994:  29,992
1995:  32,592
1996:  31,587
1997:  31,583
1998:  31,536

Group
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  28,975
1981:  26,444
1982:  27,828
1983:  28,076
1984*c:  29,361
1985:  30,317
1986:  36,364
1987:  36,079
1988:  37,363
1989:  37,728
1990:  37,007
1991:  33,833
1992:  32,095
1993*c:  32,812
1994:  31,750
1995:  34,852
1996:  33,649
1997:  34,816
1998:  34,641

Group
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  31,418
1981:  32,200
1982:  31,313
1983:  33,766
1984*c:  34,786
1985:  34,995
1986:  37,904
1987:  38,599
1988:  39,499
1989:  40,853
1990:  39,037
1991:  38,840
1992:  37,214
1993*c:  36,658
1994:  37,045
1995:  36,525
1996:  36,832
1997:  39,352
1998:  41,820

Group
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  25,717
1981:  27,252
1982:  23,353
1983:  23,123
1984*c:  24,450
1985:  25,617
1986:  22,668
1987:  23,647
1988:  21,160
1989:  24,267
1990:  24,385
1991:  25,427
1992:  26,472
1993*c:  24,817
1994:  24,788
1995:  21,619
1996:  22,335
1997:  25,304
1998:  26,750

Group
New York
Income Year
1980:  28,882
1981:  27,802
1982:  27,027
1983:  29,010
1984*c:  29,829
1985:  31,333
1986:  32,360
1987:  32,875
1988:  34,878
1989:  35,202
1990:  33,432
1991:  33,270
1992:  32,205
1993*c:  31,585
1994:  32,353
1995:  31,220
1996:  32,200
1997:  32,106
1998:  34,260

Group
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  25,723
1981:  24,851
1982:  23,638
1983:  25,028
1984*c:  26,341
1985:  27,639
1986:  27,342
1987:  28,410
1988:  29,114
1989:  29,467
1990:  28,477
1991:  27,731
1992:  28,743
1993*c:  28,356
1994:  28,388
1995:  29,665
1996:  29,088
1997:  30,160
1998:  30,608

Group
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  24,867
1981:  23,310
1982:  24,400
1983:  23,146
1984*c:  22,750
1985:  24,125
1986:  25,059
1987:  26,150
1988:  26,280
1989:  25,691
1990:  26,104
1991:  24,803
1992:  25,909
1993*c:  27,386
1994:  27,051
1995:  26,614
1996:  26,295
1997:  27,893
1998:  27,658

Group
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  29,006
1981:  29,586
1982:  28,690
1983:  28,352
1984*c:  28,424
1985:  30,148
1986:  29,872
1987:  30,841
1988:  31,690
1989:  31,649
1990:  30,915
1991:  29,945
1992:  30,077
1993*c:  30,390
1994:  30,217
1995:  32,103
1996:  32,776
1997:  33,090
1998:  35,355

Group
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  26,706
1981:  27,894
1982:  27,027
1983:  26,514
1984*c:  28,628
1985:  25,847
1986:  26,774
1987:  27,264
1988:  28,445
1989:  25,470
1990:  26,191
1991:  26,741
1992:  26,154
1993*c:  24,488
1994:  26,919
1995:  26,579
1996:  25,144
1997:  25,896
1998:  29,328

Group
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  29,752
1981:  27,869
1982:  28,314
1983:  27,087
1984*c:  28,315
1985:  27,172
1986:  26,205
1987:  28,112
1988:  30,490
1989:  29,712
1990:  30,157
1991:  28,183
1992:  31,776
1993*c:  30,901
1994:  27,919
1995:  30,874
1996:  31,090
1997:  31,503
1998:  32,980

Group
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  27,979
1981:  27,020
1982:  26,426
1983:  27,304
1984*c:  27,958
1985:  29,087
1986:  30,052
1987:  29,886
1988:  30,601
1989:  31,140
1990:  30,210
1991:  29,919
1992:  29,872
1993*c:  29,830
1994:  30,802
1995:  30,898
1996:  32,322
1997:  31,441
1998:  33,845

Group
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  27,277
1981:  26,001
1982:  26,968
1983:  27,047
1984*c:  30,173
1985:  30,685
1986:  33,012
1987:  31,954
1988:  36,098
1989:  34,523
1990:  34,023
1991:  31,894
1992:  32,502
1993*c:  30,739
1994:  34,882
1995:  32,451
1996:  31,498
1997:  37,442
1998:  39,802

Group
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  21,521
1981:  20,489
1982:  20,404
1983:  22,354
1984*c:  25,494
1985:  26,239
1986:  28,629
1987:  28,699
1988:  28,935
1989:  27,672
1990:  28,587
1991:  26,947
1992:  25,610
1993*c:  25,381
1994:  28,731
1995:  27,747
1996:  30,716
1997:  30,160
1998:  30,839

Group
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  23,198
1981:  22,144
1982:  21,408
1983:  22,478
1984*c:  22,874
1985:  22,207
1986:  22,308
1987:  23,844
1988:  24,318
1989:  23,334
1990:  24,008
1991:  24,055
1992:  23,408
1993*c:  24,073
1994:  26,427
1995:  27,669
1996:  26,445
1997:  26,447
1998:  29,698

Group
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  23,756
1981:  23,651
1982:  22,723
1983:  23,732
1984*c:  25,275
1985:  23,451
1986:  23,935
1987:  26,821
1988:  26,341
1989:  26,981
1990:  26,411
1991:  27,357
1992:  25,067
1993*c:  26,593
1994:  29,021
1995:  26,393
1996:  27,144
1997:  26,568
1998:  29,698

Group
Texas
Income Year
1980:  28,396
1981:  27,957
1982:  27,916
1983:  28,942
1984*c:  28,435
1985:  29,920
1986:  28,919
1987:  29,237
1988:  28,058
1989:  27,888
1990:  28,051
1991:  27,638
1992:  28,759
1993*c:  28,236
1994:  28,037
1995:  28,102
1996:  27,010
1997:  27,944
1998:  30,150

Group
Utah
Income Year
1980:  25,915
1981:  25,317
1982:  22,675
1983:  22,949
1984*c:  26,651
1985:  26,248
1986:  26,412
1987:  26,798
1988:  27,399
1989:  28,592
1990:  25,556
1991:  27,204
1992:  28,173
1993*c:  26,912
1994:  27,998
1995:  26,527
1996:  27,745
1997:  28,061
1998:  30,000

Group
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  24,728
1981:  24,429
1982:  25,064
1983:  25,823
1984*c:  27,735
1985:  30,556
1986:  29,194
1987:  31,647
1988:  32,303
1989:  31,244
1990:  32,819
1991:  27,549
1992:  29,006
1993*c:  28,509
1994:  30,105
1995:  29,033
1996:  27,582
1997:  30,097
1998:  31,113

Group
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  28,576
1981:  28,733
1982:  28,937
1983:  30,530
1984*c:  32,615
1985:  32,694
1986:  34,335
1987:  36,869
1988:  37,801
1989:  38,297
1990:  32,401
1991:  31,115
1992:  33,555
1993*c:  32,292
1994:  32,664
1995:  31,007
1996:  32,858
1997:  37,193
1998:  39,598

Group
Washington
Income Year
1980:  29,674
1981:  29,222
1982:  28,598
1983:  28,805
1984*c:  29,858
1985:  30,639
1986:  33,440
1987:  31,621
1988:  34,488
1989:  31,816
1990:  31,180
1991:  32,940
1992:  34,303
1993*c:  34,010
1994:  32,752
1995:  31,654
1996:  31,771
1997:  36,500
1998:  37,788

Group
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  22,986
1981:  23,086
1982:  22,311
1983:  20,253
1984*c:  21,443
1985:  21,595
1986:  22,383
1987:  23,337
1988:  23,466
1989:  24,944
1990:  25,337
1991:  24,552
1992:  23,862
1993*c:  22,335
1994:  25,954
1995:  26,477
1996:  24,931
1997:  24,406
1998:  25,000

Group
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  29,031
1981:  27,850
1982:  27,952
1983:  27,366
1984*c:  27,627
1985:  28,080
1986:  29,154
1987:  29,493
1988:  31,320
1989:  32,102
1990:  31,180
1991:  31,235
1992:  32,423
1993*c:  31,136
1994:  33,031
1995:  33,333
1996:  34,426
1997:  33,538
1998:  35,000

Group
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  30,575
1981:  31,200
1982:  26,393
1983:  27,488
1984*c:  28,912
1985:  27,950
1986:  27,863
1987:  32,286
1988:  27,900
1989:  29,470
1990:  27,599
1991:  27,525
1992:  26,423
1993*c:  25,689
1994:  30,259
1995:  28,898
1996:  27,197
1997:  26,136
1998:  28,204

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 1b.  Median Household Size-Adjusted Incomeof Non-
Institutionalized Civilian Men with a Disability Aged 25 Through 61 for the 
United States and, for Each State and the District of Columbia, Income Years 
1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a,*b

Group
United States
Income Year
1980:  14,377
1981:  14,773
1982:  13,948
1983:  14,174
1984*c:  14,504
1985:  14,831
1986:  14,993
1987:  16,750
1988:  15,883
1989:  16,565
1990:  15,551
1991:  15,905
1992:  15,639
1993*c:  14,490
1994:  14,605
1995:  15,218
1996:  14,755
1997:  15,476
1998:  15,832

Group
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  7,779
1981:  13,553
1982:  14,635
1983:  9,068
1984*c:  13,215
1985:  9,171
1986:  11,180
1987:  8,897
1988:  9,776
1989:  9,089
1990:  13,843
1991:  13,687
1992:  10,471
1993*c:  11,255
1994:  11,267
1995:  15,166
1996:  16,565
1997:  14,001
1998:  12,346

Group
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  24,931
1981:  28,918
1982:  15,632
1983:  34,370
1984*c:  15,579
1985:  22,136
1986:  17,423
1987:  22,544
1988:  19,945
1989:  16,923
1990:  17,216
1991:  18,600
1992:  28,364
1993*c:  19,741
1994:  19,634
1995:  31,004
1996:  29,812
1997:  24,073
1998:  21,943

Group
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  20,016
1981:  18,448
1982:  16,630
1983:  11,552
1984*c:  16,172
1985:  18,211
1986:  13,490
1987:  18,435
1988:  21,433
1989:  23,073
1990:  18,839
1991:  26,991
1992:  14,021
1993*c:  13,950
1994:  21,675
1995:  23,102
1996:  18,669
1997:  16,199
1998:  20,800

Group
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  12,396
1981:  11,629
1982:  10,721
1983:  10,029
1984*c:  14,799
1985:  11,354
1986:  12,455
1987:  10,627
1988:  12,123
1989:  13,943
1990:  11,282
1991:  14,608
1992:  10,530
1993*c:  14,463
1994:  10,640
1995:  13,396
1996:  9,791
1997:  12,186
1998:  12,126

Group
California
Income Year
1980:  14,650
1981:  14,758
1982:  16,352
1983:  15,957
1984*c:  15,822
1985:  18,937
1986:  15,774
1987:  21,443
1988:  17,193
1989:  16,890
1990:  16,090
1991:  18,455
1992:  17,007
1993*c:  16,990
1994:  17,496
1995:  14,452
1996:  14,331
1997:  15,896
1998:  17,392

Group
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  12,462
1981:  21,980
1982:  15,050
1983:  14,298
1984*c:  17,210
1985:  25,281
1986:  31,109
1987:  16,839
1988:  12,421
1989:  10,690
1990:  21,144
1991:  15,080
1992:  15,611
1993*c:  22,143
1994:  15,249
1995:  20,285
1996:  21,488
1997:  12,660
1998:  20,656

Group
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  26,538
1981:  25,773
1982:  26,331
1983:  22,567
1984*c:  13,332
1985:  25,784
1986:  27,792
1987:  28,857
1988:  44,055
1989:  38,142
1990:  20,192
1991:  33,707
1992:  22,826
1993*c:  18,250
1994:  24,887
1995:  22,206
1996:  23,998
1997:  14,544
1998:  12,774

Group
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  14,607
1981:  21,015
1982:  20,970
1983:  18,124
1984*c:  15,703
1985:  12,483
1986:  15,623
1987:  15,616
1988:  21,815
1989:  21,698
1990:  17,798
1991:  25,730
1992:  23,943
1993*c:  12,692
1994:  15,441
1995:  12,720
1996:  23,266
1997:  13,931
1998:  24,755

Group
DC
Income Year
1980:  8,518
1981:  7,880
1982:  11,043
1983:  13,907
1984*c:  10,297
1985:  15,190
1986:  9,214
1987:  23,207
1988:  16,075
1989:  17,187
1990:  12,332
1991:  19,452
1992:  13,347
1993*c:  12,954
1994:  6,817
1995:  10,699
1996:  8,813
1997:  15,158
1998:  12,912

Group
Florida
Income Year
1980:  13,234
1981:  13,842
1982:  15,542
1983:  15,954
1984*c:  15,689
1985:  15,056
1986:  14,872
1987:  19,945
1988:  16,120
1989:  19,626
1990:  16,389
1991:  16,527
1992:  13,932
1993*c:  17,039
1994:  13,779
1995:  14,717
1996:  14,137
1997:  14,567
1998:  18,205

Group
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  16,175
1981:  11,467
1982:  9,006
1983:  11,093
1984*c:  11,809
1985:  15,076
1986:  12,806
1987:  16,986
1988:  14,408
1989:  17,788
1990:  13,096
1991:  9,751
1992:  18,238
1993*c:  10,082
1994:  13,979
1995:  14,826
1996:  9,968
1997:  15,075
1998:  18,777

Group
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  16,111
1981:  11,788
1982:  15,715
1983:  18,161
1984*c:  19,974
1985:  19,576
1986:  19,082
1987:  20,616
1988:  15,559
1989:  17,602
1990:  23,352
1991:  20,639
1992:  24,558
1993*c:  21,104
1994:  23,219
1995:  24,791
1996:  17,617
1997:  16,589
1998:  19,945

Group
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  16,994
1981:  18,733
1982:  13,514
1983:  13,474
1984*c:  17,000
1985:  19,774
1986:  12,224
1987:  11,851
1988:  18,339
1989:  20,798
1990:  13,393
1991:  14,386
1992:  13,781
1993*c:  20,643
1994:  17,630
1995:  17,970
1996:  19,861
1997:  15,206
1998:  19,092

Group
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  19,574
1981:  20,047
1982:  19,932
1983:  14,440
1984*c:  9,733
1985:  18,398
1986:  20,771
1987:  17,563
1988:  19,162
1989:  19,179
1990:  21,202
1991:  15,596
1992:  12,771
1993*c:  14,158
1994:  22,931
1995:  11,099
1996:  15,957
1997:  15,351
1998:  16,109

Group
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  18,216
1981:  12,569
1982:  16,862
1983:  13,093
1984*c:  15,249
1985:  17,341
1986:  15,581
1987:  11,910
1988:  18,606
1989:  11,015
1990:  15,530
1991:  17,825
1992:  21,865
1993*c:  14,633
1994:  12,327
1995:  16,112
1996:  16,242
1997:  18,415
1998:  11,725

Group
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  20,982
1981:  14,251
1982:  13,574
1983:  13,888
1984*c:  14,719
1985:  14,725
1986:  13,150
1987:  19,486
1988:  18,544
1989:  14,549
1990:  21,603
1991:  19,337
1992:  17,881
1993*c:  14,092
1994:  13,302
1995:  13,503
1996:  19,799
1997:  16,998
1998:  17,465

Group
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  17,072
1981:  11,388
1982:  17,260
1983:  22,329
1984*c:  21,377
1985:  13,099
1986:  21,409
1987:  15,017
1988:  25,089
1989:  23,280
1990:  19,236
1991:  11,660
1992:  16,818
1993*c:  12,762
1994:  14,006
1995:  13,670
1996:  15,867
1997:  14,599
1998:  21,252

Group
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  13,457
1981:  11,658
1982:  12,512
1983:  15,187
1984*c:  12,644
1985:  10,595
1986:  16,300
1987:  15,148
1988:  12,969
1989:  11,656
1990:  11,377
1991:  10,829
1992:  10,529
1993*c:  8,592
1994:  11,230
1995:  12,088
1996:  7,561
1997:  10,074
1998:  15,832

Group
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  11,879
1981:  11,509
1982:  10,969
1983:  9,471
1984*c:  10,709
1985:  14,151
1986:  9,549
1987:  10,103
1988:  11,496
1989:  13,960
1990:  13,993
1991:  13,162
1992:  10,086
1993*c:  13,264
1994:  10,795
1995:  15,655
1996:  10,600
1997:  9,314
1998:  14,604

Group
Maine
Income Year
1980:  14,678
1981:  10,562
1982:  13,139
1983:  15,520
1984*c:  20,284
1985:  10,604
1986:  17,895
1987:  20,947
1988:  15,487
1989:  10,518
1990:  20,184
1991:  16,094
1992:  15,941
1993*c:  10,743
1994:  13,886
1995:  11,322
1996:  13,281
1997:  17,415
1998:  19,648

Group
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  21,761
1981:  11,839
1982:  12,394
1983:  21,968
1984*c:  19,325
1985:  18,688
1986:  14,933
1987:  20,015
1988:  20,970
1989:  21,456
1990:  26,241
1991:  26,352
1992:  29,881
1993*c:  21,961
1994:  19,288
1995:  15,433
1996:  19,793
1997:  22,260
1998:  10,681

Group
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  16,295
1981:  20,710
1982:  15,425
1983:  14,174
1984*c:  20,224
1985:  21,081
1986:  23,679
1987:  24,297
1988:  21,955
1989:  22,340
1990:  20,888
1991:  19,463
1992:  21,604
1993*c:  20,605
1994:  19,113
1995:  14,830
1996:  13,503
1997:  16,627
1998:  14,400

Group
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  15,728
1981:  18,691
1982:  15,784
1983:  16,951
1984*c:  13,513
1985:  18,518
1986:  19,636
1987:  19,282
1988:  17,655
1989:  16,164
1990:  10,583
1991:  14,957
1992:  11,970
1993*c:  11,188
1994:  19,446
1995:  17,916
1996:  16,008
1997:  15,080
1998:  10,990

Group
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  16,516
1981:  13,603
1982:  18,301
1983:  20,133
1984*c:  16,242
1985:  18,331
1986:  25,170
1987:  27,809
1988:  16,430
1989:  24,583
1990:  17,947
1991:  21,001
1992:  22,084
1993*c:  17,548
1994:  16,235
1995:  16,863
1996:  16,312
1997:  34,458
1998:  30,397

Group
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  11,421
1981:  14,380
1982:  11,910
1983:  9,071
1984*c:  12,562
1985:  8,456
1986:  8,787
1987:  11,098
1988:  12,330
1989:  10,242
1990:  8,956
1991:  10,207
1992:  14,846
1993*c:  11,167
1994:  15,211
1995:  19,737
1996:  10,832
1997:  16,378
1998:  12,449

Group
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  11,323
1981:  13,452
1982:  11,900
1983:  12,846
1984*c:  11,334
1985:  14,583
1986:  11,925
1987:  13,641
1988:  14,172
1989:  19,015
1990:  11,000
1991:  14,361
1992:  19,211
1993*c:  11,202
1994:  10,640
1995:  13,190
1996:  16,809
1997:  16,790
1998:  14,314

Group
Montana
Income Year
1980:  18,222
1981:  18,256
1982:  13,608
1983:  13,733
1984*c:  11,132
1985:  10,860
1986:  17,252
1987:  16,226
1988:  15,783
1989:  13,581
1990:  15,565
1991:  18,291
1992:  18,653
1993*c:  13,489
1994:  20,579
1995:  21,100
1996:  19,601
1997:  14,951
1998:  15,071

Group
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  16,335
1981:  16,306
1982:  17,655
1983:  14,061
1984*c:  16,707
1985:  15,429
1986:  16,310
1987:  12,064
1988:  11,022
1989:  21,441
1990:  15,019
1991:  15,905
1992:  13,148
1993*c:  13,560
1994:  19,649
1995:  20,559
1996:  16,308
1997:  18,005
1998:  10,940

Group
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  20,199
1981:  23,659
1982:  26,638
1983:  27,790
1984*c:  21,216
1985:  23,633
1986:  23,140
1987:  23,963
1988:  16,223
1989:  17,690
1990:  13,789
1991:  17,094
1992:  18,089
1993*c:  28,138
1994:  21,844
1995:  22,461
1996:  26,444
1997:  19,278
1998:  17,236

Group
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  20,200
1981:  20,794
1982:  12,914
1983:  17,009
1984*c:  19,805
1985:  13,919
1986:  21,214
1987:  29,019
1988:  19,310
1989:  20,718
1990:  26,775
1991:  23,388
1992:  22,865
1993*c:  22,071
1994:  17,392
1995:  15,100
1996:  24,267
1997:  21,864
1998:  28,286

Group
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  16,123
1981:  19,566
1982:  18,905
1983:  14,734
1984*c:  17,774
1985:  20,165
1986:  20,064
1987:  20,556
1988:  23,069
1989:  18,825
1990:  22,942
1991:  22,978
1992:  26,200
1993*c:  24,095
1994:  19,334
1995:  19,920
1996:  24,351
1997:  22,867
1998:  17,489

Group
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  11,502
1981:  14,867
1982:  13,193
1983:  7,878
1984*c:  13,592
1985:  11,153
1986:  10,711
1987:  14,276
1988:  8,620
1989:  11,549
1990:  10,913
1991:  13,131
1992:  12,321
1993*c:  10,774
1994:  11,148
1995:  13,370
1996:  9,344
1997:  12,423
1998:  14,671

Group
New York
Income Year
1980:  10,203
1981:  15,001
1982:  12,126
1983:  11,975
1984*c:  13,552
1985:  12,654
1986:  14,872
1987:  15,750
1988:  18,387
1989:  16,109
1990:  13,394
1991:  16,786
1992:  15,691
1993*c:  16,178
1994:  13,395
1995:  17,223
1996:  17,417
1997:  16,324
1998:  13,380

Group
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  12,033
1981:  12,238
1982:  12,086
1983:  14,908
1984*c:  13,968
1985:  13,040
1986:  15,866
1987:  15,741
1988:  17,053
1989:  15,494
1990:  15,379
1991:  17,786
1992:  16,513
1993*c:  13,126
1994:  13,748
1995:  17,031
1996:  15,887
1997:  15,835
1998:  14,117

Group
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  17,251
1981:  20,374
1982:  13,312
1983:  11,365
1984*c:  13,312
1985:  20,162
1986:  19,022
1987:  18,941
1988:  21,350
1989:  17,487
1990:  16,856
1991:  17,331
1992:  14,952
1993*c:  19,162
1994:  14,626
1995:  12,834
1996:  21,369
1997:  16,176
1998:  28,003

Group
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  14,555
1981:  14,042
1982:  13,948
1983:  13,500
1984*c:  15,895
1985:  18,668
1986:  13,180
1987:  18,257
1988:  16,231
1989:  17,329
1990:  18,678
1991:  15,092
1992:  16,322
1993*c:  13,059
1994:  11,658
1995:  14,346
1996:  13,510
1997:  13,386
1998:  14,760

Group
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  14,167
1981:  12,734
1982:  11,781
1983:  13,626
1984*c:  12,048
1985:  15,904
1986:  13,520
1987:  11,095
1988:  12,373
1989:  13,293
1990:  13,317
1991:  13,247
1992:  15,612
1993*c:  14,829
1994:  14,070
1995:  11,091
1996:  12,584
1997:  12,721
1998:  11,037

Group
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  14,409
1981:  20,065
1982:  14,611
1983:  16,367
1984*c:  13,896
1985:  15,470
1986:  15,469
1987:  13,834
1988:  16,949
1989:  18,446
1990:  21,602
1991:  24,396
1992:  15,841
1993*c:  14,926
1994:  13,776
1995:  18,794
1996:  19,131
1997:  20,825
1998:  17,854

Group
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  13,118
1981:  14,782
1982:  14,601
1983:  11,481
1984*c:  12,269
1985:  13,570
1986:  15,015
1987:  18,669
1988:  15,532
1989:  15,808
1990:  18,025
1991:  18,651
1992:  17,396
1993*c:  17,867
1994:  13,623
1995:  14,827
1996:  13,820
1997:  13,530
1998:  16,025

Group
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  17,211
1981:  14,018
1982:  10,372
1983:  16,483
1984*c:  14,590
1985:  19,400
1986:  19,433
1987:  21,093
1988:  16,418
1989:  16,819
1990:  16,864
1991:  18,369
1992:  13,710
1993*c:  16,667
1994:  18,438
1995:  16,199
1996:  18,149
1997:  11,951
1998:  14,771

Group
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  11,869
1981:  11,718
1982:  9,950
1983:  12,170
1984*c:  10,041
1985:  12,227
1986:  12,846
1987:  12,186
1988:  12,427
1989:  11,661
1990:  10,419
1991:  9,630
1992:  11,470
1993*c:  11,977
1994:  11,430
1995:  17,781
1996:  9,350
1997:  15,244
1998:  15,262

Group
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  14,540
1981:  13,856
1982:  12,812
1983:  11,086
1984*c:  18,814
1985:  15,844
1986:  16,931
1987:  14,229
1988:  18,706
1989:  23,206
1990:  13,228
1991:  18,833
1992:  19,635
1993*c:  16,179
1994:  16,021
1995:  17,495
1996:  12,685
1997:  15,511
1998:  13,485

Group
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  13,599
1981:  14,601
1982:  11,971
1983:  13,175
1984*c:  10,364
1985:  8,919
1986:  8,636
1987:  10,461
1988:  10,841
1989:  11,069
1990:  8,955
1991:  12,205
1992:  11,307
1993*c:  9,706
1994:  10,240
1995:  13,904
1996:  16,326
1997:  12,113
1998:  13,911

Group
Texas
Income Year
1980:  14,994
1981:  15,370
1982:  13,694
1983:  15,036
1984*c:  16,340
1985:  12,054
1986:  11,938
1987:  12,612
1988:  14,709
1989:  12,783
1990:  15,045
1991:  13,584
1992:  13,063
1993*c:  12,603
1994:  13,013
1995:  13,426
1996:  18,277
1997:  13,307
1998:  15,597

Group
Utah
Income Year
1980:  18,581
1981:  17,117
1982:  13,024
1983:  22,845
1984*c:  20,395
1985:  13,749
1986:  16,675
1987:  14,127
1988:  18,152
1989:  18,391
1990:  18,615
1991:  11,603
1992:  23,375
1993*c:  17,106
1994:  17,703
1995:  18,000
1996:  19,229
1997:  26,457
1998:  33,453

Group
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  17,193
1981:  14,421
1982:  12,200
1983:  10,738
1984*c:  20,308
1985:  16,889
1986:  22,320
1987:  16,721
1988:  19,104
1989:  15,989
1990:  21,841
1991:  16,227
1992:  16,308
1993*c:  16,075
1994:  14,078
1995:  15,030
1996:  16,406
1997:  15,382
1998:  11,984

Group
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  14,691
1981:  18,523
1982:  12,783
1983:  19,493
1984*c:  12,551
1985:  10,197
1986:  14,900
1987:  17,650
1988:  21,433
1989:  16,080
1990:  18,313
1991:  15,813
1992:  16,303
1993*c:  13,536
1994:  17,983
1995:  12,976
1996:  10,938
1997:  10,252
1998:  20,071

Group
Washington
Income Year
1980:  15,390
1981:  14,981
1982:  16,175
1983:  14,978
1984*c:  16,948
1985:  20,623
1986:  18,921
1987:  19,228
1988:  23,740
1989:  21,953
1990:  18,774
1991:  25,338
1992:  22,740
1993*c:  20,467
1994:  17,675
1995:  18,466
1996:  21,560
1997:  25,541
1998:  22,616

Group
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  15,180
1981:  11,869
1982:  12,823
1983:  12,810
1984*c:  13,402
1985:  10,110
1986:  13,691
1987:  9,132
1988:  11,839
1989:  10,796
1990:  11,530
1991:  11,170
1992:  10,930
1993*c:  11,288
1994:  9,007
1995:  10,418
1996:  9,118
1997:  11,155
1998:  13,689

Group
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  12,450
1981:  15,433
1982:  14,484
1983:  14,426
1984*c:  16,529
1985:  11,764
1986:  10,222
1987:  17,655
1988:  22,498
1989:  19,587
1990:  24,519
1991:  15,279
1992:  18,246
1993*c:  18,537
1994:  21,423
1995:  21,658
1996:  13,505
1997:  21,631
1998:  22,307

Group
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  21,696
1981:  19,182
1982:  20,971
1983:  22,914
1984*c:  14,787
1985:  15,274
1986:  16,288
1987:  12,499
1988:  19,105
1989:  21,093
1990:  19,931
1991:  16,222
1992:  18,667
1993*c:  11,562
1994:  12,456
1995:  18,182
1996:  18,677
1997:  14,649
1998:  17,529

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 1c.  Median Household Size-Adjusted Income of Non-
Institutionalized Civilian Women without a Disability Aged 25 Through 61 for the 
United States, and for Each State and the District of Columbia, Income Years 
1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a,*b

Group
United States
Income Year
1980:  25,350
1981:  24,858
1982:  24,486
1983:  25,031
1984*c:  25,894
1985:  26,512
1986:  27,245
1987:  28,457
1988:  28,654
1989:  28,870
1990:  28,137
1991:  27,939
1992:  27,908
1993*c:  27,575
1994:  28,068
1995:  28,243
1996:  28,765
1997:  29,619
1998:  30,413

Group
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  21,031
1981:  20,160
1982:  21,114
1983:  21,784
1984*c:  20,417
1985:  20,991
1986:  20,552
1987:  21,519
1988:  21,433
1989:  21,657
1990:  22,022
1991:  24,003
1992:  21,689
1993*c:  22,701
1994:  25,641
1995:  23,152
1996:  26,284
1997:  25,795
1998:  28,846

Group
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  33,857
1981:  31,872
1982:  31,090
1983:  33,416
1984*c:  35,842
1985:  34,502
1986:  33,521
1987:  35,399
1988:  33,723
1989:  35,675
1990:  34,394
1991:  35,670
1992:  33,479
1993*c:  35,749
1994:  35,159
1995:  33,307
1996:  36,524
1997:  32,171
1998:  35,024

Group
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  25,684
1981:  25,462
1982:  25,267
1983:  24,020
1984*c:  23,575
1985:  25,583
1986:  25,979
1987:  28,085
1988:  28,245
1989:  27,043
1990:  27,916
1991:  27,465
1992:  25,109
1993*c:  25,507
1994:  25,558
1995:  25,035
1996:  24,263
1997:  24,772
1998:  28,335

Group
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  19,683
1981:  18,786
1982:  18,731
1983:  17,533
1984*c:  17,246
1985:  20,673
1986:  20,012
1987:  19,623
1988:  21,122
1989:  22,033
1990:  21,888
1991:  20,943
1992:  23,423
1993*c:  20,532
1994:  23,458
1995:  23,592
1996:  21,285
1997:  20,311
1998:  23,221

Group
California
Income Year
1980:  28,271
1981:  26,925
1982:  27,154
1983:  27,641
1984*c:  28,160
1985:  28,954
1986:  30,648
1987:  30,913
1988:  29,661
1989:  31,298
1990:  30,575
1991:  30,110
1992:  29,736
1993*c:  28,791
1994:  29,517
1995:  29,701
1996:  29,826
1997:  29,902
1998:  30,000

Group
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  27,695
1981:  27,609
1982:  28,051
1983:  28,817
1984*c:  29,620
1985:  30,109
1986:  31,083
1987:  30,851
1988:  29,406
1989:  30,406
1990:  30,095
1991:  30,419
1992:  29,843
1993*c:  30,820
1994:  31,672
1995:  32,016
1996:  31,565
1997:  33,513
1998:  35,532

Group
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  28,042
1981:  28,887
1982:  31,625
1983:  32,897
1984*c:  33,103
1985:  33,631
1986:  34,801
1987:  35,603
1988:  36,779
1989:  42,112
1990:  37,789
1991:  35,506
1992:  33,163
1993*c:  34,975
1994:  35,775
1995:  34,103
1996:  35,632
1997:  39,523
1998:  37,580

Group
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  27,577
1981:  27,075
1982:  27,724
1983:  26,358
1984*c:  26,492
1985:  26,566
1986:  28,971
1987:  29,526
1988:  32,513
1989:  31,550
1990:  28,783
1991:  28,054
1992:  30,875
1993*c:  30,469
1994:  30,796
1995:  28,833
1996:  30,750
1997:  31,428
1998:  30,420

Group
DC
Income Year
1980:  25,839
1981:  24,468
1982:  27,027
1983:  25,803
1984*c:  24,628
1985:  28,256
1986:  31,234
1987:  33,434
1988:  31,731
1989:  31,287
1990:  27,229
1991:  29,934
1992:  31,279
1993*c:  25,906
1994:  27,971
1995:  29,151
1996:  31,455
1997:  27,902
1998:  34,661

Group
Florida
Income Year
1980:  21,410
1981:  21,678
1982:  21,115
1983:  22,222
1984*c:  22,670
1985:  24,239
1986:  26,089
1987:  26,331
1988:  27,046
1989:  25,962
1990:  25,781
1991:  26,646
1992:  26,290
1993*c:  24,866
1994:  26,035
1995:  25,134
1996:  25,023
1997:  27,155
1998:  28,991

Group
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  25,717
1981:  24,136
1982:  22,179
1983:  22,913
1984*c:  25,455
1985:  25,299
1986:  27,043
1987:  29,969
1988:  27,909
1989:  27,323
1990:  25,798
1991:  26,947
1992:  27,653
1993*c:  28,656
1994:  25,400
1995:  26,473
1996:  27,440
1997:  28,488
1998:  28,611

Group
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  28,487
1981:  27,288
1982:  26,858
1983:  26,879
1984*c:  29,065
1985:  29,038
1986:  28,629
1987:  33,180
1988:  31,907
1989:  33,178
1990:  36,609
1991:  31,115
1992:  35,613
1993*c:  33,020
1994:  30,599
1995:  32,473
1996:  31,757
1997:  31,779
1998:  34,257

Group
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  21,879
1981:  21,363
1982:  21,020
1983:  21,260
1984*c:  22,351
1985:  21,307
1986:  19,981
1987:  21,917
1988:  22,809
1989:  22,171
1990:  21,603
1991:  22,173
1992:  23,329
1993*c:  25,128
1994:  26,359
1995:  26,070
1996:  25,088
1997:  25,450
1998:  27,615

Group
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  28,354
1981:  27,897
1982:  28,586
1983:  27,619
1984*c:  27,237
1985:  27,392
1986:  29,133
1987:  30,064
1988:  30,216
1989:  30,629
1990:  30,556
1991:  29,495
1992:  28,664
1993*c:  28,275
1994:  30,832
1995:  30,874
1996:  31,528
1997:  31,596
1998:  32,360

Group
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  23,798
1981:  21,978
1982:  21,983
1983:  23,493
1984*c:  25,834
1985:  24,392
1986:  24,933
1987:  23,774
1988:  27,279
1989:  26,263
1990:  25,318
1991:  25,387
1992:  25,151
1993*c:  25,415
1994:  26,048
1995:  25,843
1996:  28,293
1997:  28,941
1998:  29,500

Group
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  24,793
1981:  24,344
1982:  24,486
1983:  23,358
1984*c:  23,969
1985:  22,844
1986:  23,030
1987:  24,465
1988:  23,882
1989:  24,287
1990:  24,736
1991:  25,766
1992:  25,153
1993*c:  26,340
1994:  28,789
1995:  29,465
1996:  25,710
1997:  27,572
1998:  27,577

Group
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  27,219
1981:  25,368
1982:  24,385
1983:  25,589
1984*c:  26,603
1985:  27,212
1986:  25,598
1987:  27,265
1988:  28,635
1989:  28,789
1990:  28,485
1991:  26,753
1992:  27,884
1993*c:  28,017
1994:  26,287
1995:  27,037
1996:  27,581
1997:  29,585
1998:  29,503

Group
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  23,031
1981:  20,705
1982:  22,983
1983:  21,407
1984*c:  19,034
1985:  20,560
1986:  21,754
1987:  23,260
1988:  23,560
1989:  24,325
1990:  24,993
1991:  23,576
1992:  23,730
1993*c:  24,201
1994:  23,643
1995:  23,529
1996:  28,257
1997:  28,729
1998:  27,930

Group
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  22,153
1981:  22,417
1982:  22,246
1983:  23,011
1984*c:  21,385
1985:  22,973
1986:  23,183
1987:  25,377
1988:  20,291
1989:  23,642
1990:  23,034
1991:  22,927
1992:  22,182
1993*c:  21,433
1994:  22,165
1995:  23,968
1996:  23,697
1997:  24,339
1998:  25,050

Group
Maine
Income Year
1980:  22,157
1981:  20,413
1982:  21,377
1983:  21,641
1984*c:  23,501
1985:  24,461
1986:  24,557
1987:  24,567
1988:  27,512
1989:  26,160
1990:  26,931
1991:  26,436
1992:  24,208
1993*c:  25,543
1994:  26,263
1995:  27,139
1996:  29,296
1997:  26,971
1998:  29,069

Group
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  29,442
1981:  28,044
1982:  28,744
1983:  31,321
1984*c:  32,640
1985:  32,116
1986:  31,110
1987:  34,730
1988:  35,898
1989:  36,959
1990:  36,872
1991:  33,512
1992:  34,033
1993*c:  32,065
1994:  33,213
1995:  32,166
1996:  33,771
1997:  36,104
1998:  38,939

Group
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  26,706
1981:  28,473
1982:  27,827
1983:  28,711
1984*c:  29,941
1985:  32,321
1986:  32,867
1987:  35,513
1988:  35,911
1989:  37,991
1990:  35,893
1991:  33,946
1992:  34,270
1993*c:  33,768
1994:  34,951
1995:  34,062
1996:  33,938
1997:  34,933
1998:  35,961

Group
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  26,390
1981:  26,903
1982:  24,510
1983:  25,246
1984*c:  27,153
1985:  27,533
1986:  29,635
1987:  31,007
1988:  30,427
1989:  29,585
1990:  28,942
1991:  29,100
1992:  29,589
1993*c:  28,526
1994:  30,061
1995:  31,185
1996:  30,926
1997:  32,073
1998:  32,534

Group
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  27,149
1981:  25,820
1982:  24,703
1983:  26,810
1984*c:  28,295
1985:  27,716
1986:  29,747
1987:  30,923
1988:  28,075
1989:  29,709
1990:  28,691
1991:  28,939
1992:  30,462
1993*c:  31,103
1994:  30,246
1995:  32,721
1996:  32,597
1997:  34,900
1998:  35,361

Group
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  18,645
1981:  19,726
1982:  20,341
1983:  18,085
1984*c:  18,356
1985:  18,970
1986:  18,664
1987:  20,089
1988:  21,566
1989:  22,085
1990:  18,440
1991:  19,301
1992:  18,488
1993*c:  19,354
1994:  20,999
1995:  20,758
1996:  19,738
1997:  21,891
1998:  21,920

Group
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  24,556
1981:  24,518
1982:  23,041
1983:  22,266
1984*c:  23,960
1985:  24,098
1986:  26,599
1987:  27,607
1988:  28,681
1989:  28,066
1990:  26,316
1991:  27,577
1992:  26,782
1993*c:  26,976
1994:  27,084
1995:  26,471
1996:  28,838
1997:  29,113
1998:  30,244

Group
Montana
Income Year
1980:  24,730
1981:  23,555
1982:  20,752
1983:  21,526
1984*c:  22,677
1985:  23,723
1986:  22,900
1987:  22,323
1988:  22,989
1989:  22,646
1990:  22,194
1991:  22,985
1992:  22,642
1993*c:  24,265
1994:  24,741
1995:  23,921
1996:  23,053
1997:  23,466
1998:  24,300

Group
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  25,559
1981:  23,336
1982:  21,959
1983:  21,686
1984*c:  24,369
1985:  23,481
1986:  24,289
1987:  25,669
1988:  25,513
1989:  26,498
1990:  26,180
1991:  25,319
1992:  25,163
1993*c:  25,595
1994:  25,432
1995:  27,018
1996:  26,424
1997:  29,319
1998:  28,520

Group
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  26,311
1981:  25,881
1982:  26,636
1983:  28,197
1984*c:  26,850
1985:  24,563
1986:  26,801
1987:  26,661
1988:  28,740
1989:  28,362
1990:  29,014
1991:  30,012
1992:  26,674
1993*c:  30,008
1994:  28,982
1995:  29,947
1996:  30,683
1997:  29,745
1998:  29,240

Group
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  25,807
1981:  25,363
1982:  25,591
1983:  25,388
1984*c:  27,391
1985:  28,273
1986:  32,479
1987:  32,728
1988:  34,997
1989:  35,160
1990:  36,933
1991:  33,182
1992:  31,486
1993*c:  29,588
1994:  32,011
1995:  32,575
1996:  31,041
1997:  33,564
1998:  32,500

Group
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  27,695
1981:  28,901
1982:  28,083
1983:  30,200
1984*c:  31,719
1985:  32,351
1986:  34,002
1987:  34,904
1988:  37,231
1989:  37,163
1990:  35,732
1991:  36,654
1992:  34,530
1993*c:  34,068
1994:  34,322
1995:  34,879
1996:  35,158
1997:  36,838
1998:  37,429

Group
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  21,853
1981:  21,533
1982:  19,359
1983:  22,095
1984*c:  22,070
1985:  22,432
1986:  20,654
1987:  20,463
1988:  19,047
1989:  22,001
1990:  21,826
1991:  24,549
1992:  24,226
1993*c:  23,594
1994:  22,597
1995:  21,072
1996:  19,521
1997:  22,382
1998:  23,384

Group
New York
Income Year
1980:  25,784
1981:  24,749
1982:  24,128
1983:  25,867
1984*c:  26,671
1985:  26,830
1986:  28,315
1987:  29,117
1988:  31,000
1989:  31,056
1990:  29,869
1991:  29,865
1992:  29,089
1993*c:  27,162
1994:  28,368
1995:  28,243
1996:  27,980
1997:  30,473
1998:  30,065

Group
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  23,380
1981:  21,264
1982:  20,480
1983:  23,527
1984*c:  24,456
1985:  24,286
1986:  24,798
1987:  25,833
1988:  27,142
1989:  26,587
1990:  26,077
1991:  25,138
1992:  26,405
1993*c:  26,400
1994:  26,839
1995:  28,099
1996:  29,296
1997:  27,927
1998:  28,764

Group
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  22,451
1981:  22,786
1982:  23,012
1983:  22,395
1984*c:  22,038
1985:  22,871
1986:  23,424
1987:  22,865
1988:  24,421
1989:  24,273
1990:  23,796
1991:  22,559
1992:  23,521
1993*c:  23,990
1994:  25,332
1995:  25,161
1996:  25,820
1997:  24,474
1998:  26,924

Group
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  26,212
1981:  25,561
1982:  25,338
1983:  24,757
1984*c:  26,077
1985:  26,780
1986:  27,342
1987:  27,981
1988:  27,709
1989:  29,578
1990:  28,311
1991:  27,365
1992:  27,538
1993*c:  28,212
1994:  27,497
1995:  29,408
1996:  29,629
1997:  30,618
1998:  32,626

Group
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  24,444
1981:  24,569
1982:  24,381
1983:  24,550
1984*c:  25,286
1985:  23,821
1986:  23,556
1987:  25,682
1988:  26,214
1989:  24,486
1990:  22,966
1991:  25,251
1992:  24,149
1993*c:  22,469
1994:  23,826
1995:  25,254
1996:  22,772
1997:  24,748
1998:  28,163

Group
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  25,973
1981:  25,832
1982:  25,533
1983:  25,319
1984*c:  25,083
1985:  25,277
1986:  23,805
1987:  27,601
1988:  30,165
1989:  29,136
1990:  28,236
1991:  26,239
1992:  29,360
1993*c:  27,877
1994:  27,541
1995:  28,018
1996:  28,652
1997:  29,443
1998:  30,580

Group
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  25,124
1981:  24,136
1982:  23,226
1983:  24,090
1984*c:  23,925
1985:  26,530
1986:  26,480
1987:  27,893
1988:  27,544
1989:  28,383
1990:  27,736
1991:  27,696
1992:  28,041
1993*c:  28,342
1994:  29,416
1995:  28,651
1996:  30,282
1997:  30,160
1998:  30,679

Group
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  24,431
1981:  23,729
1982:  24,711
1983:  25,810
1984*c:  27,523
1985:  28,241
1986:  29,479
1987:  31,878
1988:  32,637
1989:  30,890
1990:  33,188
1991:  31,894
1992:  29,072
1993*c:  29,713
1994:  28,414
1995:  27,305
1996:  30,499
1997:  35,803
1998:  35,355

Group
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  18,794
1981:  19,173
1982:  17,568
1983:  19,067
1984*c:  22,801
1985:  23,519
1986:  23,767
1987:  25,848
1988:  26,936
1989:  23,670
1990:  24,058
1991:  24,832
1992:  23,249
1993*c:  22,786
1994:  26,035
1995:  24,813
1996:  26,765
1997:  26,391
1998:  26,558

Group
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  20,982
1981:  19,669
1982:  20,497
1983:  19,674
1984*c:  20,810
1985:  20,135
1986:  20,693
1987:  22,076
1988:  23,371
1989:  23,120
1990:  22,366
1991:  22,745
1992:  22,908
1993*c:  22,381
1994:  24,791
1995:  25,905
1996:  23,873
1997:  25,719
1998:  27,894

Group
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  22,248
1981:  21,633
1982:  21,118
1983:  20,462
1984*c:  22,187
1985:  20,919
1986:  21,084
1987:  23,676
1988:  23,629
1989:  23,312
1990:  21,710
1991:  23,948
1992:  23,818
1993*c:  22,696
1994:  24,622
1995:  24,231
1996:  24,413
1997:  25,403
1998:  26,560

Group
Texas
Income Year
1980:  24,795
1981:  25,103
1982:  24,243
1983:  25,953
1984*c:  26,443
1985:  25,709
1986:  27,195
1987:  27,456
1988:  25,605
1989:  25,162
1990:  25,901
1991:  24,608
1992:  26,264
1993*c:  25,009
1994:  25,158
1995:  26,738
1996:  25,743
1997:  26,193
1998:  27,015

Group
Utah
Income Year
1980:  22,453
1981:  22,934
1982:  21,253
1983:  20,148
1984*c:  24,592
1985:  24,182
1986:  23,777
1987:  23,264
1988:  24,395
1989:  26,357
1990:  24,003
1991:  25,218
1992:  26,981
1993*c:  26,638
1994:  26,503
1995:  24,703
1996:  25,328
1997:  27,373
1998:  27,973

Group
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  23,171
1981:  22,392
1982:  22,723
1983:  23,102
1984*c:  25,792
1985:  29,458
1986:  25,765
1987:  28,891
1988:  33,067
1989:  29,627
1990:  31,803
1991:  29,008
1992:  26,980
1993*c:  27,353
1994:  30,861
1995:  29,068
1996:  28,248
1997:  29,451
1998:  29,884

Group
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  25,707
1981:  25,983
1982:  27,678
1983:  28,053
1984*c:  28,382
1985:  29,678
1986:  30,720
1987:  31,353
1988:  33,090
1989:  33,827
1990:  30,556
1991:  29,064
1992:  31,360
1993*c:  31,585
1994:  31,049
1995:  28,328
1996:  31,375
1997:  33,651
1998:  34,118

Group
Washington
Income Year
1980:  27,291
1981:  25,984
1982:  26,221
1983:  25,787
1984*c:  28,034
1985:  27,144
1986:  27,950
1987:  31,621
1988:  32,377
1989:  29,835
1990:  28,772
1991:  31,056
1992:  30,448
1993*c:  32,014
1994:  29,087
1995:  30,487
1996:  31,109
1997:  33,750
1998:  36,958

Group
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  20,134
1981:  19,034
1982:  18,824
1983:  19,022
1984*c:  18,859
1985:  18,194
1986:  18,703
1987:  19,883
1988:  19,978
1989:  21,310
1990:  20,965
1991:  21,003
1992:  20,124
1993*c:  20,870
1994:  22,710
1995:  22,719
1996:  22,992
1997:  24,373
1998:  23,258

Group
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  26,577
1981:  25,984
1982:  26,659
1983:  24,773
1984*c:  25,020
1985:  26,094
1986:  27,440
1987:  27,508
1988:  29,140
1989:  28,200
1990:  28,970
1991:  29,381
1992:  29,344
1993*c:  29,738
1994:  29,790
1995:  30,183
1996:  31,694
1997:  31,882
1998:  32,391

Group
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  27,247
1981:  27,793
1982:  26,278
1983:  25,354
1984*c:  27,666
1985:  24,250
1986:  26,034
1987:  31,012
1988:  27,230
1989:  27,834
1990:  26,147
1991:  25,387
1992:  24,886
1993*c:  23,786
1994:  27,702
1995:  27,576
1996:  25,343
1997:  25,749
1998:  26,446

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 1d.  Median Household Size-Adjusted Income of Non-
Institutionalized Civilian Women with a Disability Aged 25 Through 61 for the 
United States, and for Each State and the District of Columbia, Income Years 
1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a,*b

Group
United States
Income Year
1980:  13,527
1981:  13,307
1982:  13,200
1983:  12,658
1984*c:  13,310
1985:  13,356
1986:  12,970
1987:  14,180
1988:  14,188
1989:  14,789
1990:  14,835
1991:  13,975
1992:  13,437
1993*c:  13,061
1994:  14,209
1995:  14,398
1996:  13,458
1997:  14,218
1998:  14,173

Group
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  10,880
1981:  12,512
1982:  7,225
1983:  9,143
1984*c:  10,850
1985:  8,495
1986:  7,504
1987:  9,327
1988:  10,548
1989:  9,465
1990:  9,532
1991:  11,317
1992:  15,999
1993*c:  13,539
1994:  9,424
1995:  8,552
1996:  9,950
1997:  9,713
1998:  10,963

Group
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  17,456
1981:  24,506
1982:  18,695
1983:  17,475
1984*c:  31,887
1985:  25,102
1986:  15,796
1987:  23,434
1988:  17,543
1989:  33,355
1990:  19,473
1991:  16,594
1992:  21,253
1993*c:  22,441
1994:  13,869
1995:  15,671
1996:  20,799
1997:  18,710
1998:  17,889

Group
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  12,720
1981:  14,074
1982:  12,826
1983:  16,085
1984*c:  14,529
1985:  16,143
1986:  16,208
1987:  20,029
1988:  19,055
1989:  25,501
1990:  17,899
1991:  15,019
1992:  10,794
1993*c:  15,104
1994:  17,467
1995:  22,258
1996:  16,168
1997:  13,716
1998:  16,225

Group
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  14,072
1981:  10,891
1982:  9,787
1983:  8,456
1984*c:  8,491
1985:  8,974
1986:  11,536
1987:  8,587
1988:  10,692
1989:  9,925
1990:  8,305
1991:  14,217
1992:  8,778
1993*c:  10,254
1994:  8,885
1995:  12,072
1996:  11,506
1997:  11,449
1998:  8,630

Group
California
Income Year
1980:  14,518
1981:  13,667
1982:  14,798
1983:  14,476
1984*c:  15,531
1985:  16,532
1986:  16,857
1987:  16,867
1988:  16,452
1989:  18,930
1990:  18,160
1991:  16,761
1992:  18,447
1993*c:  13,561
1994:  16,690
1995:  15,437
1996:  16,829
1997:  18,966
1998:  15,433

Group
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  12,841
1981:  14,286
1982:  14,045
1983:  16,434
1984*c:  12,862
1985:  23,633
1986:  13,601
1987:  14,760
1988:  13,364
1989:  17,661
1990:  12,215
1991:  14,585
1992:  15,274
1993*c:  16,131
1994:  20,065
1995:  17,693
1996:  14,865
1997:  16,906
1998:  22,304

Group
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  25,346
1981:  18,984
1982:  23,649
1983:  19,207
1984*c:  34,029
1985:  30,310
1986:  16,460
1987:  13,399
1988:  41,364
1989:  18,917
1990:  15,288
1991:  12,159
1992:  15,989
1993*c:  16,119
1994:  36,024
1995:  12,503
1996:  25,118
1997:  22,867
1998:  14,547

Group
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  13,820
1981:  17,129
1982:  16,352
1983:  19,358
1984*c:  15,331
1985:  10,923
1986:  8,415
1987:  19,055
1988:  15,017
1989:  21,263
1990:  14,970
1991:  19,391
1992:  23,003
1993*c:  13,937
1994:  14,702
1995:  17,392
1996:  16,153
1997:  17,177
1998:  17,896

Group
DC
Income Year
1980:  8,452
1981:  11,681
1982:  7,496
1983:  8,911
1984*c:  9,758
1985:  9,716
1986:  13,000
1987:  10,317
1988:  18,335
1989:  9,042
1990:  12,110
1991:  11,475
1992:  14,757
1993*c:  11,279
1994:  11,029
1995:  10,990
1996:  11,019
1997:  14,895
1998:  11,547

Group
Florida
Income Year
1980:  12,480
1981:  12,411
1982:  12,162
1983:  10,610
1984*c:  11,236
1985:  12,240
1986:  15,467
1987:  15,444
1988:  15,339
1989:  17,746
1990:  13,574
1991:  14,504
1992:  15,948
1993*c:  12,778
1994:  16,285
1995:  13,472
1996:  11,816
1997:  14,753
1998:  11,713

Group
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  12,933
1981:  13,115
1982:  11,108
1983:  9,916
1984*c:  14,747
1985:  11,393
1986:  12,500
1987:  13,347
1988:  15,857
1989:  14,876
1990:  14,223
1991:  14,308
1992:  11,367
1993*c:  12,141
1994:  10,888
1995:  14,826
1996:  12,339
1997:  13,091
1998:  17,442

Group
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  19,742
1981:  11,158
1982:  13,778
1983:  21,481
1984*c:  18,294
1985:  23,027
1986:  25,157
1987:  13,424
1988:  17,245
1989:  18,733
1990:  21,166
1991:  27,764
1992:  24,410
1993*c:  14,783
1994:  16,782
1995:  13,882
1996:  13,298
1997:  18,860
1998:  16,511

Group
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  12,902
1981:  19,912
1982:  14,085
1983:  15,875
1984*c:  11,615
1985:  15,109
1986:  11,016
1987:  16,744
1988:  14,709
1989:  16,609
1990:  14,751
1991:  10,217
1992:  11,496
1993*c:  16,404
1994:  19,676
1995:  13,745
1996:  20,033
1997:  18,036
1998:  19,175

Group
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  13,377
1981:  11,852
1982:  13,662
1983:  12,012
1984*c:  12,840
1985:  10,060
1986:  16,195
1987:  9,183
1988:  11,993
1989:  13,431
1990:  13,514
1991:  15,704
1992:  12,491
1993*c:  13,061
1994:  12,301
1995:  15,846
1996:  14,260
1997:  12,894
1998:  13,263

Group
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  12,865
1981:  13,349
1982:  19,111
1983:  17,220
1984*c:  14,216
1985:  16,068
1986:  6,836
1987:  12,197
1988:  14,363
1989:  11,155
1990:  13,180
1991:  6,029
1992:  8,846
1993*c:  10,660
1994:  8,595
1995:  16,553
1996:  19,350
1997:  12,906
1998:  19,920

Group
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  16,466
1981:  19,655
1982:  16,176
1983:  17,009
1984*c:  14,873
1985:  20,780
1986:  19,782
1987:  18,195
1988:  13,198
1989:  14,945
1990:  17,221
1991:  14,433
1992:  14,253
1993*c:  11,307
1994:  14,816
1995:  12,994
1996:  15,410
1997:  15,121
1998:  20,877

Group
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  13,906
1981:  9,382
1982:  13,745
1983:  21,829
1984*c:  19,239
1985:  19,735
1986:  15,859
1987:  14,047
1988:  18,403
1989:  16,235
1990:  10,443
1991:  18,056
1992:  15,813
1993*c:  12,603
1994:  10,027
1995:  14,925
1996:  13,505
1997:  16,905
1998:  12,605

Group
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  8,515
1981:  10,904
1982:  9,307
1983:  10,544
1984*c:  11,764
1985:  7,347
1986:  13,773
1987:  10,487
1988:  10,141
1989:  16,402
1990:  15,524
1991:  8,449
1992:  8,766
1993*c:  6,707
1994:  8,783
1995:  11,693
1996:  10,153
1997:  8,437
1998:  10,007

Group
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  12,690
1981:  9,670
1982:  7,667
1983:  6,874
1984*c:  12,509
1985:  12,507
1986:  11,209
1987:  6,029
1988:  11,800
1989:  10,984
1990:  10,740
1991:  13,698
1992:  6,257
1993*c:  7,885
1994:  11,340
1995:  11,251
1996:  9,529
1997:  12,040
1998:  13,625

Group
Maine
Income Year
1980:  11,929
1981:  8,887
1982:  13,218
1983:  12,084
1984*c:  19,002
1985:  10,010
1986:  16,083
1987:  14,209
1988:  12,516
1989:  15,734
1990:  20,184
1991:  18,004
1992:  14,783
1993*c:  10,518
1994:  14,361
1995:  16,451
1996:  14,971
1997:  14,211
1998:  19,542

Group
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  18,604
1981:  21,935
1982:  15,533
1983:  18,574
1984*c:  13,045
1985:  18,353
1986:  25,492
1987:  30,564
1988:  9,307
1989:  7,887
1990:  15,159
1991:  13,580
1992:  21,692
1993*c:  19,342
1994:  15,222
1995:  16,680
1996:  13,141
1997:  24,465
1998:  24,749

Group
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  17,583
1981:  11,809
1982:  18,984
1983:  17,207
1984*c:  12,321
1985:  13,926
1986:  10,129
1987:  17,391
1988:  11,462
1989:  17,849
1990:  23,299
1991:  18,444
1992:  16,137
1993*c:  18,740
1994:  15,337
1995:  15,584
1996:  15,520
1997:  12,219
1998:  14,654

Group
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  13,855
1981:  13,186
1982:  10,893
1983:  12,715
1984*c:  13,367
1985:  14,910
1986:  14,955
1987:  15,341
1988:  12,729
1989:  16,783
1990:  17,267
1991:  16,583
1992:  13,466
1993*c:  13,590
1994:  16,681
1995:  17,437
1996:  14,592
1997:  11,680
1998:  12,075

Group
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  22,493
1981:  26,968
1982:  15,692
1983:  19,673
1984*c:  15,293
1985:  12,162
1986:  14,732
1987:  13,349
1988:  39,455
1989:  16,342
1990:  21,634
1991:  18,738
1992:  14,136
1993*c:  18,425
1994:  17,708
1995:  18,801
1996:  15,774
1997:  15,771
1998:  18,093

Group
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  11,124
1981:  7,241
1982:  8,766
1983:  7,316
1984*c:  7,889
1985:  5,999
1986:  8,758
1987:  9,478
1988:  9,423
1989:  9,619
1990:  9,753
1991:  9,145
1992:  8,672
1993*c:  8,601
1994:  16,468
1995:  9,908
1996:  10,832
1997:  8,873
1998:  15,153

Group
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  14,769
1981:  16,990
1982:  12,054
1983:  13,096
1984*c:  9,543
1985:  14,247
1986:  12,748
1987:  16,518
1988:  13,042
1989:  12,936
1990:  17,530
1991:  15,579
1992:  12,323
1993*c:  9,024
1994:  19,614
1995:  11,371
1996:  14,648
1997:  18,762
1998:  19,976

Group
Montana
Income Year
1980:  16,104
1981:  19,303
1982:  10,225
1983:  17,358
1984*c:  12,559
1985:  11,788
1986:  16,314
1987:  11,433
1988:  14,575
1989:  18,833
1990:  12,872
1991:  16,641
1992:  15,609
1993*c:  12,752
1994:  12,347
1995:  16,140
1996:  8,284
1997:  9,877
1998:  12,741

Group
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  12,589
1981:  17,985
1982:  17,870
1983:  17,812
1984*c:  14,230
1985:  27,035
1986:  14,724
1987:  12,561
1988:  27,682
1989:  12,542
1990:  11,499
1991:  18,006
1992:  18,718
1993*c:  12,565
1994:  20,563
1995:  13,781
1996:  10,781
1997:  14,778
1998:  17,940

Group
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  16,786
1981:  14,986
1982:  19,505
1983:  26,029
1984*c:  22,926
1985:  16,401
1986:  21,133
1987:  18,264
1988:  19,567
1989:  19,581
1990:  21,607
1991:  19,904
1992:  18,601
1993*c:  17,875
1994:  19,619
1995:  17,816
1996:  25,062
1997:  18,187
1998:  21,700

Group
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  14,342
1981:  16,642
1982:  17,375
1983:  16,994
1984*c:  19,927
1985:  20,586
1986:  19,942
1987:  32,721
1988:  31,096
1989:  21,269
1990:  19,152
1991:  16,163
1992:  14,369
1993*c:  34,763
1994:  17,753
1995:  18,556
1996:  23,672
1997:  19,258
1998:  12,759

Group
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  18,274
1981:  15,595
1982:  19,427
1983:  14,433
1984*c:  19,743
1985:  24,872
1986:  15,669
1987:  17,937
1988:  20,183
1989:  22,157
1990:  23,660
1991:  21,096
1992:  21,614
1993*c:  19,504
1994:  19,179
1995:  20,875
1996:  17,893
1997:  23,357
1998:  19,271

Group
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  11,297
1981:  12,178
1982:  9,775
1983:  9,379
1984*c:  13,670
1985:  13,901
1986:  14,148
1987:  11,872
1988:  12,327
1989:  11,155
1990:  7,952
1991:  14,911
1992:  9,266
1993*c:  12,259
1994:  11,484
1995:  12,235
1996:  10,038
1997:  14,259
1998:  17,001

Group
New York
Income Year
1980:  10,203
1981:  11,208
1982:  11,655
1983:  8,832
1984*c:  10,152
1985:  10,712
1986:  12,207
1987:  15,118
1988:  13,888
1989:  16,384
1990:  13,410
1991:  11,157
1992:  11,757
1993*c:  15,764
1994:  10,987
1995:  15,809
1996:  11,743
1997:  12,694
1998:  11,408

Group
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  11,740
1981:  11,648
1982:  10,916
1983:  11,621
1984*c:  13,523
1985:  11,783
1986:  13,236
1987:  12,943
1988:  12,477
1989:  12,631
1990:  11,216
1991:  12,489
1992:  12,275
1993*c:  12,405
1994:  9,911
1995:  14,404
1996:  17,050
1997:  18,057
1998:  11,339

Group
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  15,011
1981:  18,661
1982:  16,758
1983:  16,114
1984*c:  17,111
1985:  27,388
1986:  22,271
1987:  22,853
1988:  17,523
1989:  21,117
1990:  11,262
1991:  17,051
1992:  26,369
1993*c:  17,682
1994:  15,593
1995:  19,836
1996:  11,729
1997:  17,743
1998:  12,021

Group
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  13,790
1981:  14,833
1982:  12,827
1983:  17,195
1984*c:  13,559
1985:  13,691
1986:  9,788
1987:  13,221
1988:  13,138
1989:  14,445
1990:  15,991
1991:  11,218
1992:  12,786
1993*c:  13,519
1994:  14,061
1995:  11,551
1996:  13,438
1997:  13,100
1998:  15,752

Group
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  12,722
1981:  14,684
1982:  16,016
1983:  8,123
1984*c:  16,301
1985:  9,252
1986:  8,331
1987:  7,469
1988:  10,329
1989:  14,572
1990:  10,653
1991:  13,383
1992:  9,984
1993*c:  8,875
1994:  7,031
1995:  12,362
1996:  12,714
1997:  14,218
1998:  11,925

Group
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  15,521
1981:  13,412
1982:  18,214
1983:  12,517
1984*c:  14,791
1985:  10,414
1986:  15,682
1987:  19,669
1988:  19,312
1989:  12,489
1990:  14,966
1991:  18,773
1992:  13,755
1993*c:  16,680
1994:  17,145
1995:  19,316
1996:  16,096
1997:  18,593
1998:  13,210

Group
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  11,763
1981:  11,056
1982:  14,824
1983:  12,277
1984*c:  10,387
1985:  12,712
1986:  13,782
1987:  16,014
1988:  19,794
1989:  17,810
1990:  14,066
1991:  15,232
1992:  11,296
1993*c:  13,716
1994:  12,171
1995:  14,272
1996:  12,882
1997:  13,101
1998:  14,153

Group
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  20,353
1981:  13,980
1982:  16,563
1983:  14,524
1984*c:  14,865
1985:  19,400
1986:  24,836
1987:  20,139
1988:  21,775
1989:  21,473
1990:  18,038
1991:  11,135
1992:  11,276
1993*c:  14,011
1994:  9,297
1995:  16,199
1996:  21,801
1997:  15,470
1998:  12,000

Group
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  12,546
1981:  9,445
1982:  6,405
1983:  10,213
1984*c:  15,176
1985:  14,387
1986:  10,467
1987:  12,186
1988:  8,831
1989:  11,128
1990:  16,190
1991:  9,434
1992:  9,755
1993*c:  10,946
1994:  19,385
1995:  12,967
1996:  11,752
1997:  14,218
1998:  11,374

Group
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  20,799
1981:  12,642
1982:  9,796
1983:  11,446
1984*c:  17,222
1985:  13,853
1986:  14,255
1987:  17,846
1988:  12,805
1989:  11,584
1990:  13,228
1991:  13,594
1992:  16,185
1993*c:  18,916
1994:  16,021
1995:  21,132
1996:  16,194
1997:  18,287
1998:  12,308

Group
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  9,512
1981:  12,167
1982:  12,511
1983:  6,996
1984*c:  12,330
1985:  10,834
1986:  8,884
1987:  12,207
1988:  12,642
1989:  9,812
1990:  7,802
1991:  10,188
1992:  10,844
1993*c:  9,017
1994:  11,989
1995:  11,705
1996:  10,934
1997:  13,407
1998:  13,786

Group
Texas
Income Year
1980:  12,589
1981:  15,631
1982:  13,662
1983:  18,540
1984*c:  17,285
1985:  12,054
1986:  12,334
1987:  15,380
1988:  12,903
1989:  11,294
1990:  16,415
1991:  12,736
1992:  13,482
1993*c:  13,401
1994:  14,907
1995:  11,942
1996:  11,606
1997:  13,568
1998:  17,004

Group
Utah
Income Year
1980:  18,196
1981:  11,543
1982:  14,807
1983:  11,457
1984*c:  21,801
1985:  19,501
1986:  11,357
1987:  19,349
1988:  15,383
1989:  15,945
1990:  11,951
1991:  13,441
1992:  14,183
1993*c:  20,587
1994:  18,290
1995:  23,529
1996:  24,948
1997:  24,364
1998:  21,905

Group
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  10,084
1981:  16,403
1982:  10,523
1983:  13,462
1984*c:  19,054
1985:  16,893
1986:  14,102
1987:  11,289
1988:  12,570
1989:  16,678
1990:  15,260
1991:  13,165
1992:  16,308
1993*c:  12,244
1994:  15,901
1995:  12,785
1996:  22,415
1997:  12,489
1998:  16,747

Group
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  14,044
1981:  18,071
1982:  16,320
1983:  10,192
1984*c:  16,530
1985:  12,668
1986:  9,647
1987:  14,288
1988:  10,987
1989:  13,282
1990:  15,053
1991:  17,618
1992:  20,457
1993*c:  20,756
1994:  21,037
1995:  16,202
1996:  11,079
1997:  9,253
1998:  10,076

Group
Washington
Income Year
1980:  16,692
1981:  19,297
1982:  14,181
1983:  19,032
1984*c:  13,713
1985:  14,667
1986:  9,363
1987:  17,198
1988:  21,433
1989:  21,566
1990:  19,492
1991:  24,323
1992:  24,342
1993*c:  11,301
1994:  19,848
1995:  16,143
1996:  13,222
1997:  12,710
1998:  13,235

Group
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  11,306
1981:  13,884
1982:  9,317
1983:  9,085
1984*c:  9,631
1985:  12,347
1986:  13,198
1987:  8,438
1988:  9,470
1989:  8,541
1990:  11,844
1991:  9,583
1992:  9,239
1993*c:  9,122
1994:  8,207
1995:  11,183
1996:  8,883
1997:  8,696
1998:  11,597

Group
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  19,980
1981:  22,331
1982:  17,408
1983:  18,038
1984*c:  13,993
1985:  17,143
1986:  16,027
1987:  19,469
1988:  24,186
1989:  17,669
1990:  16,735
1991:  15,087
1992:  16,858
1993*c:  13,079
1994:  25,769
1995:  18,041
1996:  24,112
1997:  24,967
1998:  17,251

Group
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  24,728
1981:  25,948
1982:  17,044
1983:  11,870
1984*c:  20,149
1985:  19,917
1986:  11,341
1987:  14,163
1988:  22,389
1989:  16,561
1990:  10,210
1991:  23,440
1992:  19,473
1993*c:  18,266
1994:  14,264
1995:  13,488
1996:  12,238
1997:  10,976
1998:  12,835

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.



Appendix Table 2a.  Standard Error of Median Household Size-Adjusted Income of 
Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men without a Disability Aged 25 Through 61 for 
the United States, and for Each State and the District of Columbia, Income Years 
1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Group
United States
Income Year
1980:  137
1981:  141
1982:  148
1983:  144
1984*c:  156
1985:  151
1986:  158
1987:  161
1988:  174
1989:  169
1990:  163
1991:  152
1992:  154
1993*c:  164
1994:  159
1995:  171
1996:  173
1997:  167
1998:  185

Group
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  916
1981:  917
1982:  804
1983:  869
1984*c:  1,259
1985:  1,192
1986:  1,475
1987:  960
1988:  1,109
1989:  2,213
1990:  909
1991:  1,011
1992:  856
1993*c:  1,960
1994:  1,137
1995:  1,357
1996:  951
1997:  1,396
1998:  1,352

Group
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  370
1981:  338
1982:  485
1983:  625
1984*c:  744
1985:  659
1986:  756
1987:  613
1988:  625
1989:  1,152
1990:  1,724
1991:  1,725
1992:  1,467
1993*c:  1,308
1994:  1,258
1995:  1,594
1996:  1,202
1997:  1,811
1998:  1,773

Group
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  1,086
1981:  1,198
1982:  894
1983:  1,447
1984*c:  1,382
1985:  1,928
1986:  1,725
1987:  1,461
1988:  1,795
1989:  1,297
1990:  1,230
1991:  1,752
1992:  1,977
1993*c:  1,133
1994:  1,528
1995:  871
1996:  955
1997:  1,114
1998:  1,234

Group
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  956
1981:  829
1982:  743
1983:  856
1984*c:  1,344
1985:  734
1986:  1,258
1987:  1,198
1988:  943
1989:  1,238
1990:  945
1991:  1,398
1992:  881
1993*c:  1,043
1994:  831
1995:  1,182
1996:  1,343
1997:  1,194
1998:  913

Group
California
Income Year
1980:  573
1981:  648
1982:  588
1983:  663
1984*c:  753
1985:  684
1986:  734
1987:  719
1988:  1,097
1989:  566
1990:  600
1991:  617
1992:  658
1993*c:  673
1994:  500
1995:  593
1996:  716
1997:  590
1998:  729

Group
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  859
1981:  1,316
1982:  848
1983:  1,221
1984*c:  1,843
1985:  2,940
1986:  1,795
1987:  1,963
1988:  1,805
1989:  1,069
1990:  1,235
1991:  1,492
1992:  1,549
1993*c:  1,227
1994:  1,101
1995:  1,108
1996:  1,366
1997:  1,300
1998:  1,261

Group
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  958
1981:  1,152
1982:  1,186
1983:  1,320
1984*c:  2,473
1985:  2,172
1986:  1,465
1987:  1,520
1988:  1,409
1989:  1,660
1990:  1,642
1991:  1,999
1992:  2,469
1993*c:  1,501
1994:  2,175
1995:  1,801
1996:  1,783
1997:  1,753
1998:  2,036

Group
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  855
1981:  614
1982:  421
1983:  593
1984*c:  637
1985:  566
1986:  588
1987:  568
1988:  466
1989:  1,233
1990:  1,037
1991:  1,544
1992:  1,266
1993*c:  1,287
1994:  1,368
1995:  1,392
1996:  2,090
1997:  1,474
1998:  2,500

Group
DC
Income Year
1980:  1,311
1981:  786
1982:  549
1983:  928
1984*c:  940
1985:  878
1986:  1,047
1987:  756
1988:  874
1989:  2,344
1990:  1,790
1991:  2,786
1992:  1,598
1993*c:  1,533
1994:  2,723
1995:  1,898
1996:  1,992
1997:  2,348
1998:  4,549

Group
Florida
Income Year
1980:  640
1981:  922
1982:  1,063
1983:  749
1984*c:  697
1985:  698
1986:  625
1987:  626
1988:  613
1989:  789
1990:  665
1991:  689
1992:  557
1993*c:  721
1994:  552
1995:  710
1996:  739
1997:  746
1998:  805

Group
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  914
1981:  961
1982:  1,218
1983:  1,109
1984*c:  1,407
1985:  1,242
1986:  1,807
1987:  1,715
1988:  1,323
1989:  1,204
1990:  1,191
1991:  1,049
1992:  1,327
1993*c:  1,158
1994:  1,249
1995:  1,046
1996:  1,536
1997:  933
1998:  1,560

Group
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  644
1981:  1,095
1982:  506
1983:  869
1984*c:  777
1985:  579
1986:  916
1987:  981
1988:  488
1989:  1,292
1990:  1,183
1991:  1,152
1992:  1,629
1993*c:  1,395
1994:  1,370
1995:  1,901
1996:  1,135
1997:  1,889
1998:  1,339

Group
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  574
1981:  634
1982:  471
1983:  721
1984*c:  338
1985:  498
1986:  525
1987:  573
1988:  365
1989:  1,397
1990:  1,012
1991:  810
1992:  768
1993*c:  837
1994:  1,705
1995:  1,105
1996:  1,121
1997:  1,107
1998:  1,123

Group
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  700
1981:  826
1982:  668
1983:  907
1984*c:  634
1985:  820
1986:  621
1987:  977
1988:  547
1989:  664
1990:  644
1991:  677
1992:  617
1993*c:  724
1994:  818
1995:  749
1996:  866
1997:  718
1998:  717

Group
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  1,067
1981:  807
1982:  1,019
1983:  728
1984*c:  941
1985:  1,105
1986:  831
1987:  907
1988:  1,081
1989:  1,319
1990:  1,735
1991:  1,302
1992:  1,078
1993*c:  1,208
1994:  1,177
1995:  1,210
1996:  1,048
1997:  877
1998:  1,008

Group
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  1,294
1981:  1,099
1982:  1,004
1983:  883
1984*c:  1,389
1985:  1,561
1986:  839
1987:  914
1988:  728
1989:  1,128
1990:  989
1991:  1,061
1992:  992
1993*c:  767
1994:  972
1995:  1,171
1996:  1,772
1997:  1,180
1998:  1,446

Group
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  936
1981:  1,348
1982:  1,045
1983:  917
1984*c:  1,442
1985:  794
1986:  1,036
1987:  908
1988:  1,004
1989:  1,205
1990:  1,211
1991:  1,085
1992:  1,099
1993*c:  1,320
1994:  1,331
1995:  1,326
1996:  1,437
1997:  1,256
1998:  1,548

Group
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  1,346
1981:  1,521
1982:  1,199
1983:  1,214
1984*c:  1,687
1985:  1,471
1986:  1,118
1987:  1,191
1988:  1,472
1989:  1,397
1990:  1,136
1991:  1,329
1992:  1,456
1993*c:  1,287
1994:  1,245
1995:  1,262
1996:  940
1997:  1,258
1998:  1,874

Group
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  870
1981:  916
1982:  1,054
1983:  1,085
1984*c:  1,664
1985:  1,628
1986:  2,375
1987:  2,041
1988:  1,424
1989:  913
1990:  1,760
1991:  1,121
1992:  948
1993*c:  1,422
1994:  1,463
1995:  915
1996:  1,000
1997:  1,179
1998:  1,350

Group
Maine
Income Year
1980:  903
1981:  674
1982:  651
1983:  1,011
1984*c:  663
1985:  586
1986:  619
1987:  806
1988:  716
1989:  1,264
1990:  1,074
1991:  1,033
1992:  1,183
1993*c:  1,077
1994:  940
1995:  1,034
1996:  759
1997:  1,291
1998:  1,106

Group
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  1,308
1981:  1,576
1982:  973
1983:  1,357
1984*c:  1,202
1985:  2,132
1986:  1,506
1987:  1,414
1988:  1,765
1989:  1,145
1990:  1,549
1991:  2,138
1992:  1,105
1993*c:  2,008
1994:  1,216
1995:  1,669
1996:  1,535
1997:  1,598
1998:  1,316

Group
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  773
1981:  762
1982:  987
1983:  747
1984*c:  537
1985:  527
1986:  544
1987:  759
1988:  574
1989:  787
1990:  821
1991:  879
1992:  913
1993*c:  701
1994:  658
1995:  808
1996:  1,330
1997:  1,675
1998:  1,205

Group
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  783
1981:  847
1982:  895
1983:  726
1984*c:  638
1985:  686
1986:  664
1987:  592
1988:  499
1989:  730
1990:  743
1991:  609
1992:  732
1993*c:  594
1994:  625
1995:  1,034
1996:  818
1997:  755
1998:  651

Group
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  1,281
1981:  979
1982:  1,132
1983:  1,051
1984*c:  1,204
1985:  1,402
1986:  2,296
1987:  1,858
1988:  1,358
1989:  1,588
1990:  1,328
1991:  1,105
1992:  1,088
1993*c:  1,723
1994:  981
1995:  1,148
1996:  1,299
1997:  933
1998:  1,188

Group
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  807
1981:  826
1982:  880
1983:  816
1984*c:  741
1985:  860
1986:  798
1987:  759
1988:  772
1989:  742
1990:  1,068
1991:  656
1992:  1,033
1993*c:  1,581
1994:  1,037
1995:  1,513
1996:  936
1997:  916
1998:  843

Group
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  1,014
1981:  1,166
1982:  1,183
1983:  1,132
1984*c:  1,034
1985:  1,826
1986:  1,178
1987:  1,220
1988:  1,943
1989:  977
1990:  1,000
1991:  1,235
1992:  1,147
1993*c:  1,157
1994:  870
1995:  1,240
1996:  870
1997:  1,098
1998:  1,936

Group
Montana
Income Year
1980:  521
1981:  677
1982:  573
1983:  476
1984*c:  422
1985:  484
1986:  691
1987:  545
1988:  372
1989:  1,195
1990:  1,148
1991:  1,369
1992:  1,330
1993*c:  1,150
1994:  877
1995:  1,028
1996:  1,279
1997:  1,323
1998:  951

Group
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  1,091
1981:  711
1982:  891
1983:  910
1984*c:  618
1985:  633
1986:  602
1987:  895
1988:  570
1989:  778
1990:  905
1991:  1,252
1992:  847
1993*c:  911
1994:  1,010
1995:  1,327
1996:  944
1997:  1,118
1998:  1,135

Group
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  591
1981:  821
1982:  646
1983:  845
1984*c:  639
1985:  947
1986:  779
1987:  881
1988:  573
1989:  2,319
1990:  1,269
1991:  1,119
1992:  1,138
1993*c:  1,183
1994:  1,444
1995:  1,479
1996:  1,030
1997:  877
1998:  2,052

Group
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  902
1981:  768
1982:  518
1983:  556
1984*c:  728
1985:  753
1986:  903
1987:  857
1988:  696
1989:  1,387
1990:  1,173
1991:  1,652
1992:  1,119
1993*c:  1,385
1994:  1,761
1995:  1,337
1996:  1,355
1997:  1,741
1998:  1,389

Group
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  802
1981:  1,115
1982:  977
1983:  914
1984*c:  458
1985:  635
1986:  611
1987:  634
1988:  538
1989:  978
1990:  820
1991:  878
1992:  854
1993*c:  765
1994:  808
1995:  979
1996:  795
1997:  987
1998:  1,158

Group
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  888
1981:  840
1982:  662
1983:  702
1984*c:  670
1985:  729
1986:  694
1987:  678
1988:  690
1989:  1,439
1990:  1,358
1991:  1,223
1992:  1,257
1993*c:  993
1994:  1,261
1995:  863
1996:  1,248
1997:  1,213
1998:  1,748

Group
New York
Income Year
1980:  523
1981:  596
1982:  633
1983:  605
1984*c:  477
1985:  590
1986:  532
1987:  587
1988:  889
1989:  616
1990:  631
1991:  586
1992:  566
1993*c:  607
1994:  588
1995:  587
1996:  735
1997:  673
1998:  719

Group
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  1,049
1981:  1,187
1982:  1,025
1983:  1,003
1984*c:  516
1985:  503
1986:  400
1987:  503
1988:  388
1989:  575
1990:  541
1991:  615
1992:  619
1993*c:  629
1994:  639
1995:  899
1996:  916
1997:  1,074
1998:  1,038

Group
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  354
1981:  630
1982:  649
1983:  596
1984*c:  366
1985:  507
1986:  473
1987:  463
1988:  375
1989:  733
1990:  856
1991:  940
1992:  904
1993*c:  1,059
1994:  1,176
1995:  885
1996:  1,088
1997:  1,030
1998:  1,075

Group
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  634
1981:  698
1982:  788
1983:  659
1984*c:  498
1985:  599
1986:  606
1987:  606
1988:  649
1989:  584
1990:  693
1991:  566
1992:  668
1993*c:  681
1994:  646
1995:  941
1996:  909
1997:  975
1998:  874

Group
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  1,384
1981:  1,083
1982:  1,514
1983:  1,141
1984*c:  1,128
1985:  1,251
1986:  887
1987:  849
1988:  996
1989:  1,753
1990:  1,834
1991:  961
1992:  1,266
1993*c:  1,239
1994:  1,606
1995:  888
1996:  983
1997:  914
1998:  959

Group
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  1,548
1981:  730
1982:  974
1983:  851
1984*c:  1,510
1985:  1,457
1986:  1,096
1987:  1,234
1988:  1,054
1989:  1,366
1990:  1,265
1991:  1,327
1992:  1,831
1993*c:  1,296
1994:  929
1995:  1,147
1996:  1,323
1997:  1,356
1998:  1,309

Group
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  692
1981:  621
1982:  566
1983:  783
1984*c:  700
1985:  516
1986:  585
1987:  668
1988:  609
1989:  586
1990:  683
1991:  608
1992:  608
1993*c:  612
1994:  648
1995:  878
1996:  646
1997:  715
1998:  866

Group
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  1,050
1981:  537
1982:  734
1983:  819
1984*c:  767
1985:  662
1986:  874
1987:  979
1988:  945
1989:  1,246
1990:  1,700
1991:  1,672
1992:  1,531
1993*c:  1,579
1994:  2,862
1995:  2,367
1996:  1,784
1997:  1,467
1998:  2,520

Group
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  852
1981:  746
1982:  910
1983:  1,299
1984*c:  1,146
1985:  1,382
1986:  931
1987:  781
1988:  684
1989:  1,352
1990:  1,421
1991:  1,075
1992:  1,066
1993*c:  1,155
1994:  1,018
1995:  1,716
1996:  996
1997:  2,353
1998:  1,430

Group
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  431
1981:  466
1982:  353
1983:  494
1984*c:  394
1985:  340
1986:  307
1987:  305
1988:  299
1989:  578
1990:  1,024
1991:  892
1992:  690
1993*c:  822
1994:  885
1995:  755
1996:  1,255
1997:  1,047
1998:  963

Group
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  860
1981:  960
1982:  1,414
1983:  1,472
1984*c:  1,157
1985:  1,309
1986:  1,399
1987:  1,807
1988:  1,387
1989:  1,173
1990:  952
1991:  1,297
1992:  882
1993*c:  950
1994:  860
1995:  1,075
1996:  1,231
1997:  1,177
1998:  1,154

Group
Texas
Income Year
1980:  632
1981:  728
1982:  789
1983:  918
1984*c:  826
1985:  853
1986:  798
1987:  707
1988:  723
1989:  715
1990:  578
1991:  926
1992:  634
1993*c:  748
1994:  583
1995:  639
1996:  796
1997:  635
1998:  780

Group
Utah
Income Year
1980:  710
1981:  802
1982:  448
1983:  852
1984*c:  893
1985:  1,038
1986:  640
1987:  796
1988:  626
1989:  1,324
1990:  969
1991:  1,372
1992:  1,236
1993*c:  765
1994:  709
1995:  1,353
1996:  1,397
1997:  1,012
1998:  973

Group
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  475
1981:  564
1982:  498
1983:  412
1984*c:  648
1985:  561
1986:  577
1987:  685
1988:  519
1989:  1,022
1990:  1,419
1991:  1,856
1992:  828
1993*c:  1,285
1994:  1,310
1995:  1,249
1996:  1,814
1997:  1,304
1998:  1,130

Group
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  1,029
1981:  1,667
1982:  1,353
1983:  1,316
1984*c:  1,549
1985:  1,947
1986:  1,596
1987:  1,799
1988:  1,433
1989:  1,547
1990:  1,465
1991:  1,357
1992:  1,080
1993*c:  1,224
1994:  1,237
1995:  1,309
1996:  1,300
1997:  1,153
1998:  1,517

Group
Washington
Income Year
1980:  1,229
1981:  1,647
1982:  1,529
1983:  1,657
1984*c:  1,428
1985:  1,671
1986:  1,779
1987:  1,574
1988:  1,103
1989:  1,630
1990:  1,052
1991:  1,528
1992:  2,417
1993*c:  1,577
1994:  1,334
1995:  1,347
1996:  1,598
1997:  1,281
1998:  1,422

Group
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  702
1981:  743
1982:  768
1983:  697
1984*c:  889
1985:  773
1986:  540
1987:  795
1988:  720
1989:  1,192
1990:  1,063
1991:  1,182
1992:  1,176
1993*c:  1,050
1994:  1,615
1995:  1,609
1996:  1,029
1997:  1,016
1998:  1,410

Group
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  1,099
1981:  1,045
1982:  1,088
1983:  1,258
1984*c:  1,418
1985:  1,034
1986:  1,124
1987:  1,586
1988:  1,113
1989:  1,878
1990:  1,223
1991:  890
1992:  1,007
1993*c:  872
1994:  994
1995:  1,263
1996:  1,166
1997:  1,116
1998:  1,371

Group
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  509
1981:  445
1982:  569
1983:  567
1984*c:  533
1985:  477
1986:  414
1987:  403
1988:  426
1989:  1,419
1990:  1,396
1991:  920
1992:  1,181
1993*c:  810
1994:  1,261
1995:  1,013
1996:  1,215
1997:  965
1998:  1,367

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 2b.  Standard Error of Median Household Size-Adjusted Income of 
Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men with a Disability Aged 25 Through 61 for the 
United States, and for Each State and the District of Columbia, Income Years 
1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Group
United States
Income Year
1980:  344
1981:  372
1982:  379
1983:  387
1984*c:  395
1985:  390
1986:  386
1987:  472
1988:  456
1989:  436
1990:  411
1991:  476
1992:  396
1993*c:  376
1994:  404
1995:  456
1996:  506
1997:  530
1998:  554

Group
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  1,987
1981:  2,559
1982:  2,477
1983:  1,960
1984*c:  4,092
1985:  3,105
1986:  2,096
1987:  3,453
1988:  2,068
1989:  2,156
1990:  1,765
1991:  2,036
1992:  2,736
1993*c:  1,618
1994:  2,632
1995:  2,402
1996:  2,251
1997:  1,925
1998:  7,269

Group
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  886
1981:  1,453
1982:  1,237
1983:  1,520
1984*c:  2,000
1985:  2,282
1986:  1,581
1987:  1,995
1988:  1,887
1989:  5,799
1990:  3,638
1991:  4,810
1992:  4,648
1993*c:  4,781
1994:  3,988
1995:  4,245
1996:  9,880
1997:  3,205
1998:  4,397

Group
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  3,122
1981:  3,298
1982:  2,654
1983:  4,901
1984*c:  3,953
1985:  3,326
1986:  2,759
1987:  2,880
1988:  3,172
1989:  3,977
1990:  4,535
1991:  3,395
1992:  4,424
1993*c:  2,586
1994:  4,045
1995:  5,529
1996:  2,753
1997:  3,215
1998:  6,420

Group
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  1,723
1981:  1,546
1982:  1,548
1983:  2,395
1984*c:  1,281
1985:  1,417
1986:  1,225
1987:  4,461
1988:  2,304
1989:  2,060
1990:  2,481
1991:  2,001
1992:  1,397
1993*c:  2,064
1994:  2,472
1995:  1,988
1996:  1,601
1997:  1,429
1998:  2,286

Group
California
Income Year
1980:  1,337
1981:  1,427
1982:  1,559
1983:  1,800
1984*c:  1,527
1985:  1,931
1986:  1,692
1987:  2,348
1988:  2,883
1989:  1,462
1990:  1,512
1991:  1,763
1992:  1,278
1993*c:  1,248
1994:  1,392
1995:  2,056
1996:  1,171
1997:  2,405
1998:  1,738

Group
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  4,050
1981:  2,906
1982:  3,268
1983:  3,056
1984*c:  3,090
1985:  7,415
1986:  4,712
1987:  4,247
1988:  4,095
1989:  3,816
1990:  3,586
1991:  2,955
1992:  3,413
1993*c:  6,988
1994:  3,540
1995:  2,457
1996:  2,479
1997:  3,772
1998:  6,244

Group
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  3,491
1981:  4,242
1982:  2,873
1983:  4,111
1984*c:  5,596
1985:  2,411
1986:  10,553
1987:  5,605
1988:  5,891
1989:  8,613
1990:  4,178
1991:  5,616
1992:  4,084
1993*c:  4,320
1994:  4,023
1995:  3,744
1996:  3,764
1997:  3,286
1998:  4,271

Group
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  1,956
1981:  1,600
1982:  1,405
1983:  1,507
1984*c:  1,510
1985:  2,125
1986:  1,162
1987:  1,846
1988:  3,024
1989:  4,359
1990:  2,828
1991:  5,195
1992:  2,408
1993*c:  3,209
1994:  2,593
1995:  2,499
1996:  4,573
1997:  8,970
1998:  3,850

Group
DC
Income Year
1980:  2,638
1981:  1,847
1982:  2,503
1983:  1,773
1984*c:  1,573
1985:  1,835
1986:  1,445
1987:  1,816
1988:  1,225
1989:  5,273
1990:  4,270
1991:  9,501
1992:  6,579
1993*c:  4,619
1994:  2,597
1995:  2,464
1996:  14,070
1997:  2,406
1998:  11,106

Group
Florida
Income Year
1980:  1,626
1981:  1,865
1982:  2,416
1983:  1,732
1984*c:  1,514
1985:  2,351
1986:  1,699
1987:  1,583
1988:  1,325
1989:  1,999
1990:  1,492
1991:  1,584
1992:  1,322
1993*c:  1,602
1994:  1,786
1995:  1,476
1996:  1,522
1997:  2,341
1998:  1,670

Group
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  2,109
1981:  2,103
1982:  1,902
1983:  2,960
1984*c:  4,242
1985:  3,758
1986:  2,751
1987:  4,395
1988:  3,329
1989:  4,561
1990:  2,842
1991:  1,948
1992:  2,626
1993*c:  2,311
1994:  2,554
1995:  2,020
1996:  1,553
1997:  2,257
1998:  8,035

Group
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  2,773
1981:  1,796
1982:  1,805
1983:  1,611
1984*c:  2,764
1985:  1,956
1986:  1,479
1987:  2,060
1988:  1,428
1989:  6,665
1990:  4,811
1991:  7,510
1992:  2,996
1993*c:  3,665
1994:  2,938
1995:  5,399
1996:  2,672
1997:  10,981
1998:  4,840

Group
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  1,587
1981:  2,658
1982:  1,143
1983:  1,400
1984*c:  1,579
1985:  1,140
1986:  1,865
1987:  1,466
1988:  1,382
1989:  2,453
1990:  3,064
1991:  2,659
1992:  1,780
1993*c:  2,508
1994:  3,400
1995:  4,549
1996:  2,952
1997:  6,673
1998:  6,718

Group
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  1,577
1981:  2,689
1982:  3,299
1983:  1,951
1984*c:  1,876
1985:  2,170
1986:  1,856
1987:  2,305
1988:  1,818
1989:  1,527
1990:  2,118
1991:  1,984
1992:  1,470
1993*c:  1,337
1994:  1,867
1995:  3,349
1996:  2,928
1997:  2,460
1998:  1,851

Group
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  1,910
1981:  2,523
1982:  2,541
1983:  2,667
1984*c:  2,880
1985:  3,635
1986:  2,138
1987:  2,652
1988:  2,480
1989:  2,274
1990:  2,515
1991:  7,338
1992:  3,607
1993*c:  3,415
1994:  3,501
1995:  2,398
1996:  3,516
1997:  3,552
1998:  3,142

Group
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  4,081
1981:  5,300
1982:  3,260
1983:  2,690
1984*c:  2,692
1985:  2,466
1986:  2,456
1987:  11,102
1988:  11,113
1989:  3,560
1990:  3,579
1991:  2,911
1992:  1,926
1993*c:  1,907
1994:  3,789
1995:  2,710
1996:  4,003
1997:  3,365
1998:  2,662

Group
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  4,281
1981:  3,591
1982:  2,718
1983:  3,131
1984*c:  2,698
1985:  2,166
1986:  3,772
1987:  7,584
1988:  3,696
1989:  3,189
1990:  5,015
1991:  2,720
1992:  3,314
1993*c:  2,789
1994:  2,833
1995:  3,035
1996:  4,091
1997:  2,352
1998:  3,275

Group
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  2,789
1981:  1,612
1982:  1,885
1983:  3,104
1984*c:  3,214
1985:  2,258
1986:  2,273
1987:  2,946
1988:  1,755
1989:  2,404
1990:  1,964
1991:  2,015
1992:  1,986
1993*c:  1,213
1994:  4,090
1995:  2,668
1996:  2,201
1997:  7,667
1998:  1,984

Group
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  2,033
1981:  2,715
1982:  2,585
1983:  2,227
1984*c:  4,945
1985:  4,966
1986:  2,996
1987:  2,380
1988:  2,326
1989:  2,594
1990:  2,447
1991:  6,102
1992:  3,026
1993*c:  1,879
1994:  1,952
1995:  1,785
1996:  3,815
1997:  2,522
1998:  2,355

Group
Maine
Income Year
1980:  1,618
1981:  1,120
1982:  1,354
1983:  968
1984*c:  1,491
1985:  1,882
1986:  1,503
1987:  1,688
1988:  1,291
1989:  3,444
1990:  2,055
1991:  1,521
1992:  2,059
1993*c:  1,409
1994:  1,903
1995:  2,995
1996:  4,249
1997:  3,955
1998:  2,596

Group
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  4,246
1981:  3,390
1982:  4,228
1983:  3,548
1984*c:  2,939
1985:  4,217
1986:  5,754
1987:  9,059
1988:  2,951
1989:  6,352
1990:  4,571
1991:  3,510
1992:  4,180
1993*c:  2,936
1994:  3,693
1995:  2,447
1996:  8,799
1997:  5,777
1998:  3,910

Group
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  1,927
1981:  2,081
1982:  3,815
1983:  2,387
1984*c:  1,765
1985:  1,149
1986:  2,426
1987:  1,959
1988:  1,347
1989:  2,863
1990:  1,783
1991:  2,610
1992:  2,123
1993*c:  1,944
1994:  1,790
1995:  2,467
1996:  2,286
1997:  2,674
1998:  2,167

Group
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  2,033
1981:  2,157
1982:  1,800
1983:  2,138
1984*c:  1,351
1985:  1,123
1986:  1,770
1987:  1,763
1988:  1,423
1989:  1,562
1990:  2,051
1991:  1,534
1992:  1,783
1993*c:  1,846
1994:  1,711
1995:  2,051
1996:  3,212
1997:  1,976
1998:  2,629

Group
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  3,036
1981:  3,268
1982:  3,338
1983:  3,389
1984*c:  4,969
1985:  4,094
1986:  4,279
1987:  3,473
1988:  2,737
1989:  2,618
1990:  3,277
1991:  3,192
1992:  3,610
1993*c:  2,994
1994:  2,283
1995:  5,972
1996:  3,608
1997:  3,288
1998:  4,000

Group
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  1,831
1981:  2,564
1982:  2,305
1983:  1,830
1984*c:  1,566
1985:  1,911
1986:  1,611
1987:  4,050
1988:  1,609
1989:  2,341
1990:  1,119
1991:  2,006
1992:  2,371
1993*c:  3,379
1994:  2,597
1995:  2,842
1996:  2,671
1997:  2,468
1998:  2,494

Group
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  1,955
1981:  1,948
1982:  2,375
1983:  2,547
1984*c:  2,482
1985:  3,952
1986:  2,766
1987:  3,198
1988:  3,979
1989:  3,414
1990:  4,185
1991:  6,621
1992:  3,845
1993*c:  1,841
1994:  4,284
1995:  3,847
1996:  3,581
1997:  2,017
1998:  3,480

Group
Montana
Income Year
1980:  1,396
1981:  1,797
1982:  1,527
1983:  1,040
1984*c:  1,871
1985:  815
1986:  775
1987:  1,011
1988:  928
1989:  2,030
1990:  3,465
1991:  6,611
1992:  3,114
1993*c:  1,783
1994:  2,332
1995:  3,534
1996:  4,341
1997:  1,682
1998:  3,655

Group
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  2,927
1981:  3,075
1982:  2,515
1983:  3,343
1984*c:  3,674
1985:  2,657
1986:  2,436
1987:  1,148
1988:  2,030
1989:  3,521
1990:  2,454
1991:  3,118
1992:  13,727
1993*c:  5,073
1994:  3,122
1995:  5,380
1996:  5,968
1997:  4,567
1998:  2,671

Group
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  1,580
1981:  2,414
1982:  2,223
1983:  2,617
1984*c:  2,000
1985:  3,004
1986:  2,959
1987:  2,416
1988:  2,096
1989:  4,813
1990:  9,623
1991:  2,944
1992:  4,451
1993*c:  2,997
1994:  3,534
1995:  2,989
1996:  3,580
1997:  2,384
1998:  6,071

Group
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  3,369
1981:  2,137
1982:  1,299
1983:  1,674
1984*c:  2,817
1985:  2,649
1986:  1,932
1987:  3,581
1988:  2,981
1989:  8,663
1990:  5,961
1991:  3,585
1992:  3,954
1993*c:  2,652
1994:  2,730
1995:  3,034
1996:  3,960
1997:  5,086
1998:  4,688

Group
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  2,392
1981:  2,802
1982:  2,075
1983:  2,158
1984*c:  1,381
1985:  1,933
1986:  1,766
1987:  1,730
1988:  2,299
1989:  3,361
1990:  2,603
1991:  2,991
1992:  2,555
1993*c:  2,255
1994:  2,362
1995:  3,197
1996:  2,949
1997:  2,211
1998:  3,320

Group
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  1,179
1981:  1,524
1982:  1,874
1983:  1,446
1984*c:  1,629
1985:  4,009
1986:  1,328
1987:  1,742
1988:  1,383
1989:  2,376
1990:  2,327
1991:  3,914
1992:  2,325
1993*c:  2,306
1994:  2,882
1995:  4,486
1996:  1,852
1997:  3,789
1998:  3,483

Group
New York
Income Year
1980:  1,149
1981:  1,803
1982:  1,213
1983:  1,472
1984*c:  1,381
1985:  976
1986:  1,474
1987:  1,550
1988:  1,988
1989:  1,655
1990:  1,617
1991:  1,406
1992:  1,188
1993*c:  1,510
1994:  1,450
1995:  1,704
1996:  1,981
1997:  1,705
1998:  2,652

Group
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  2,518
1981:  1,853
1982:  1,671
1983:  2,536
1984*c:  1,421
1985:  973
1986:  1,083
1987:  1,423
1988:  1,175
1989:  1,504
1990:  1,232
1991:  1,468
1992:  1,606
1993*c:  1,521
1994:  1,576
1995:  2,448
1996:  2,575
1997:  3,366
1998:  2,546

Group
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  3,009
1981:  1,280
1982:  1,508
1983:  1,936
1984*c:  933
1985:  1,573
1986:  1,456
1987:  1,030
1988:  948
1989:  2,452
1990:  3,091
1991:  2,071
1992:  2,022
1993*c:  6,324
1994:  3,145
1995:  2,777
1996:  3,183
1997:  2,254
1998:  4,069

Group
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  1,485
1981:  1,908
1982:  1,546
1983:  1,747
1984*c:  1,244
1985:  1,601
1986:  1,194
1987:  1,776
1988:  1,604
1989:  1,767
1990:  1,802
1991:  1,291
1992:  1,346
1993*c:  1,600
1994:  1,771
1995:  1,729
1996:  2,947
1997:  2,842
1998:  1,729

Group
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  2,585
1981:  2,988
1982:  2,972
1983:  2,902
1984*c:  2,555
1985:  2,941
1986:  2,364
1987:  2,266
1988:  2,327
1989:  2,753
1990:  2,195
1991:  1,767
1992:  2,725
1993*c:  2,670
1994:  3,018
1995:  3,467
1996:  2,757
1997:  2,477
1998:  2,847

Group
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  2,968
1981:  2,060
1982:  2,209
1983:  3,061
1984*c:  4,481
1985:  3,537
1986:  2,477
1987:  2,627
1988:  2,541
1989:  3,688
1990:  2,974
1991:  3,017
1992:  2,682
1993*c:  3,504
1994:  3,087
1995:  3,666
1996:  3,088
1997:  2,878
1998:  3,264

Group
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  1,515
1981:  1,445
1982:  1,292
1983:  1,665
1984*c:  1,280
1985:  1,148
1986:  1,398
1987:  1,655
1988:  1,691
1989:  2,327
1990:  2,257
1991:  2,073
1992:  1,549
1993*c:  1,638
1994:  1,575
1995:  1,670
1996:  1,625
1997:  2,289
1998:  2,075

Group
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  2,609
1981:  1,616
1982:  2,393
1983:  2,116
1984*c:  1,805
1985:  2,412
1986:  2,577
1987:  2,267
1988:  1,518
1989:  2,792
1990:  4,692
1991:  18,748
1992:  3,953
1993*c:  5,307
1994:  3,044
1995:  2,962
1996:  2,612
1997:  3,272
1998:  4,004

Group
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  1,828
1981:  2,205
1982:  1,627
1983:  3,552
1984*c:  2,660
1985:  1,882
1986:  2,785
1987:  2,942
1988:  1,924
1989:  2,719
1990:  1,934
1991:  1,785
1992:  2,117
1993*c:  2,871
1994:  2,965
1995:  2,275
1996:  3,609
1997:  4,215
1998:  2,790

Group
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  1,735
1981:  984
1982:  1,202
1983:  1,151
1984*c:  817
1985:  734
1986:  1,281
1987:  927
1988:  1,249
1989:  3,954
1990:  2,166
1991:  2,326
1992:  3,746
1993*c:  4,620
1994:  2,672
1995:  4,628
1996:  2,682
1997:  3,997
1998:  4,270

Group
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  2,751
1981:  2,379
1982:  3,119
1983:  2,345
1984*c:  2,409
1985:  2,138
1986:  1,765
1987:  2,527
1988:  1,831
1989:  2,604
1990:  1,810
1991:  1,830
1992:  1,853
1993*c:  1,705
1994:  1,700
1995:  2,020
1996:  2,215
1997:  2,195
1998:  2,162

Group
Texas
Income Year
1980:  1,591
1981:  2,556
1982:  2,686
1983:  2,466
1984*c:  2,163
1985:  1,671
1986:  1,660
1987:  1,984
1988:  2,211
1989:  1,544
1990:  1,441
1991:  1,438
1992:  1,610
1993*c:  1,263
1994:  1,504
1995:  2,454
1996:  2,907
1997:  1,927
1998:  1,663

Group
Utah
Income Year
1980:  1,875
1981:  1,875
1982:  3,214
1983:  2,406
1984*c:  2,862
1985:  2,086
1986:  2,834
1987:  4,855
1988:  1,676
1989:  2,780
1990:  2,873
1991:  4,103
1992:  4,339
1993*c:  3,104
1994:  4,352
1995:  3,951
1996:  2,125
1997:  7,431
1998:  4,523

Group
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  1,289
1981:  941
1982:  887
1983:  1,196
1984*c:  1,564
1985:  1,969
1986:  1,646
1987:  781
1988:  1,383
1989:  4,191
1990:  3,909
1991:  2,452
1992:  2,161
1993*c:  2,343
1994:  3,852
1995:  3,404
1996:  2,913
1997:  3,081
1998:  3,862

Group
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  1,621
1981:  3,784
1982:  4,114
1983:  4,115
1984*c:  5,456
1985:  2,840
1986:  2,658
1987:  2,841
1988:  3,057
1989:  3,484
1990:  2,978
1991:  3,236
1992:  3,441
1993*c:  3,488
1994:  2,629
1995:  3,617
1996:  4,930
1997:  3,783
1998:  10,288

Group
Washington
Income Year
1980:  2,503
1981:  2,751
1982:  3,349
1983:  5,801
1984*c:  6,236
1985:  2,462
1986:  4,166
1987:  3,761
1988:  3,491
1989:  4,976
1990:  2,013
1991:  3,101
1992:  4,374
1993*c:  2,577
1994:  8,304
1995:  2,678
1996:  4,352
1997:  5,035
1998:  3,630

Group
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  1,755
1981:  990
1982:  1,287
1983:  950
1984*c:  1,711
1985:  1,513
1986:  1,378
1987:  1,264
1988:  1,364
1989:  1,374
1990:  1,282
1991:  3,659
1992:  1,804
1993*c:  2,406
1994:  1,657
1995:  1,514
1996:  1,438
1997:  2,261
1998:  2,534

Group
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  2,150
1981:  3,282
1982:  2,641
1983:  3,149
1984*c:  2,892
1985:  3,143
1986:  4,591
1987:  3,331
1988:  3,463
1989:  2,560
1990:  2,819
1991:  2,900
1992:  2,354
1993*c:  1,858
1994:  4,844
1995:  3,172
1996:  2,613
1997:  3,412
1998:  3,621

Group
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  1,195
1981:  1,627
1982:  2,044
1983:  1,732
1984*c:  1,985
1985:  1,352
1986:  1,777
1987:  1,484
1988:  1,435
1989:  2,778
1990:  4,185
1991:  2,188
1992:  5,883
1993*c:  3,081
1994:  2,919
1995:  2,509
1996:  2,514
1997:  1,674
1998:  6,795

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 2c.  Standard Error of Median Household Size-Adjusted Income of 
Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women without a Disability Aged 25 Through 61 for 
the United States, and for Each State and the District of Columbia, Income Years 
1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Group
United States
Income Year
1980:  118
1981:  127
1982:  131
1983:  131
1984*c:  144
1985:  143
1986:  148
1987:  152
1988:  161
1989:  157
1990:  151
1991:  148
1992:  146
1993*c:  150
1994:  151
1995:  214
1996:  225
1997:  237
1998:  238

Group
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  889
1981:  832
1982:  846
1983:  874
1984*c:  1,102
1985:  1,157
1986:  1,719
1987:  1,765
1988:  1,244
1989:  1,043
1990:  1,013
1991:  953
1992:  1,063
1993*c:  1,146
1994:  1,168
1995:  1,576
1996:  1,675
1997:  1,382
1998:  1,858

Group
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  336
1981:  425
1982:  401
1983:  387
1984*c:  580
1985:  589
1986:  583
1987:  578
1988:  541
1989:  1,289
1990:  1,308
1991:  1,222
1992:  1,140
1993*c:  1,172
1994:  1,140
1995:  1,519
1996:  1,666
1997:  1,769
1998:  1,786

Group
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  1,105
1981:  1,032
1982:  1,095
1983:  1,055
1984*c:  1,366
1985:  1,231
1986:  1,572
1987:  1,527
1988:  1,325
1989:  1,236
1990:  1,426
1991:  1,200
1992:  1,192
1993*c:  1,139
1994:  1,405
1995:  1,633
1996:  1,816
1997:  2,221
1998:  1,699

Group
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  836
1981:  757
1982:  901
1983:  786
1984*c:  802
1985:  844
1986:  868
1987:  1,095
1988:  853
1989:  983
1990:  957
1991:  1,123
1992:  1,126
1993*c:  989
1994:  938
1995:  1,222
1996:  1,123
1997:  1,283
1998:  1,416

Group
California
Income Year
1980:  438
1981:  485
1982:  526
1983:  492
1984*c:  623
1985:  617
1986:  625
1987:  645
1988:  954
1989:  566
1990:  554
1991:  540
1992:  536
1993*c:  555
1994:  515
1995:  789
1996:  799
1997:  790
1998:  831

Group
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  782
1981:  1,037
1982:  1,005
1983:  981
1984*c:  1,374
1985:  1,456
1986:  1,489
1987:  1,370
1988:  1,258
1989:  1,349
1990:  1,307
1991:  1,286
1992:  1,428
1993*c:  1,233
1994:  1,426
1995:  1,922
1996:  1,814
1997:  2,232
1998:  2,096

Group
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  982
1981:  1,060
1982:  1,188
1983:  1,103
1984*c:  1,453
1985:  1,381
1986:  1,585
1987:  1,500
1988:  1,753
1989:  1,670
1990:  1,725
1991:  1,353
1992:  1,560
1993*c:  1,386
1994:  1,697
1995:  1,904
1996:  2,591
1997:  1,971
1998:  2,455

Group
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  825
1981:  597
1982:  562
1983:  535
1984*c:  534
1985:  522
1986:  558
1987:  540
1988:  553
1989:  1,259
1990:  1,153
1991:  1,315
1992:  1,178
1993*c:  1,216
1994:  1,195
1995:  1,706
1996:  1,905
1997:  2,663
1998:  1,320

Group
DC
Income Year
1980:  1,402
1981:  786
1982:  885
1983:  939
1984*c:  915
1985:  842
1986:  803
1987:  813
1988:  796
1989:  1,853
1990:  1,935
1991:  2,218
1992:  2,245
1993*c:  2,415
1994:  2,145
1995:  2,510
1996:  2,802
1997:  3,442
1998:  3,684

Group
Florida
Income Year
1980:  548
1981:  781
1982:  696
1983:  795
1984*c:  699
1985:  578
1986:  590
1987:  592
1988:  555
1989:  606
1990:  652
1991:  627
1992:  585
1993*c:  611
1994:  602
1995:  904
1996:  908
1997:  937
1998:  1,007

Group
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  793
1981:  1,067
1982:  1,159
1983:  1,086
1984*c:  1,579
1985:  1,458
1986:  1,440
1987:  1,562
1988:  1,425
1989:  1,358
1990:  1,214
1991:  1,154
1992:  1,233
1993*c:  1,165
1994:  1,131
1995:  1,348
1996:  1,550
1997:  1,594
1998:  1,515

Group
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  692
1981:  642
1982:  546
1983:  575
1984*c:  682
1985:  706
1986:  676
1987:  733
1988:  663
1989:  1,577
1990:  1,557
1991:  1,349
1992:  1,348
1993*c:  1,353
1994:  1,460
1995:  2,147
1996:  1,724
1997:  1,935
1998:  1,550

Group
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  527
1981:  535
1982:  520
1983:  629
1984*c:  512
1985:  505
1986:  491
1987:  526
1988:  614
1989:  1,048
1990:  939
1991:  951
1992:  1,082
1993*c:  1,028
1994:  1,144
1995:  1,403
1996:  1,412
1997:  1,529
1998:  1,909

Group
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  549
1981:  734
1982:  701
1983:  739
1984*c:  613
1985:  607
1986:  638
1987:  686
1988:  675
1989:  749
1990:  676
1991:  642
1992:  654
1993*c:  616
1994:  687
1995:  994
1996:  984
1997:  1,138
1998:  1,124

Group
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  682
1981:  775
1982:  757
1983:  785
1984*c:  980
1985:  1,068
1986:  924
1987:  1,105
1988:  1,249
1989:  1,106
1990:  982
1991:  1,078
1992:  1,024
1993*c:  966
1994:  1,244
1995:  2,015
1996:  1,994
1997:  1,687
1998:  1,676

Group
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  923
1981:  1,038
1982:  1,020
1983:  1,017
1984*c:  1,038
1985:  907
1986:  873
1987:  1,054
1988:  907
1989:  953
1990:  1,110
1991:  1,061
1992:  954
1993*c:  991
1994:  1,263
1995:  1,462
1996:  1,255
1997:  1,742
1998:  1,774

Group
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  896
1981:  902
1982:  1,118
1983:  910
1984*c:  857
1985:  993
1986:  902
1987:  926
1988:  822
1989:  1,335
1990:  1,138
1991:  1,003
1992:  1,040
1993*c:  1,095
1994:  1,118
1995:  2,105
1996:  1,766
1997:  1,799
1998:  2,049

Group
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  921
1981:  1,073
1982:  1,173
1983:  1,119
1984*c:  1,190
1985:  1,093
1986:  1,093
1987:  1,342
1988:  989
1989:  1,208
1990:  1,074
1991:  1,157
1992:  1,153
1993*c:  1,129
1994:  1,216
1995:  1,507
1996:  1,253
1997:  1,793
1998:  1,906

Group
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  903
1981:  1,054
1982:  918
1983:  897
1984*c:  1,705
1985:  1,602
1986:  1,769
1987:  1,507
1988:  1,431
1989:  1,302
1990:  1,206
1991:  1,336
1992:  1,073
1993*c:  1,050
1994:  1,202
1995:  1,183
1996:  1,401
1997:  1,809
1998:  1,335

Group
Maine
Income Year
1980:  690
1981:  505
1982:  588
1983:  506
1984*c:  587
1985:  727
1986:  740
1987:  662
1988:  589
1989:  1,085
1990:  994
1991:  1,229
1992:  964
1993*c:  1,018
1994:  1,212
1995:  1,074
1996:  1,768
1997:  1,677
1998:  1,863

Group
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  1,078
1981:  1,030
1982:  1,142
1983:  1,157
1984*c:  1,428
1985:  1,262
1986:  1,372
1987:  1,191
1988:  1,573
1989:  1,503
1990:  1,412
1991:  1,215
1992:  1,205
1993*c:  1,382
1994:  1,388
1995:  1,962
1996:  2,142
1997:  1,778
1998:  1,845

Group
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  774
1981:  694
1982:  684
1983:  771
1984*c:  474
1985:  475
1986:  504
1987:  518
1988:  464
1989:  801
1990:  712
1991:  726
1992:  747
1993*c:  816
1994:  692
1995:  1,473
1996:  1,616
1997:  1,499
1998:  1,320

Group
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  657
1981:  667
1982:  652
1983:  721
1984*c:  555
1985:  598
1986:  565
1987:  630
1988:  545
1989:  660
1990:  654
1991:  671
1992:  647
1993*c:  641
1994:  649
1995:  1,030
1996:  1,096
1997:  1,034
1998:  1,191

Group
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  930
1981:  1,003
1982:  1,026
1983:  1,067
1984*c:  1,239
1985:  1,447
1986:  1,592
1987:  1,626
1988:  1,289
1989:  1,226
1990:  1,325
1991:  1,367
1992:  1,175
1993*c:  1,245
1994:  1,195
1995:  1,670
1996:  1,734
1997:  1,591
1998:  1,678

Group
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  785
1981:  806
1982:  787
1983:  744
1984*c:  716
1985:  751
1986:  804
1987:  1,006
1988:  919
1989:  1,000
1990:  1,007
1991:  994
1992:  908
1993*c:  1,031
1994:  926
1995:  1,133
1996:  1,418
1997:  1,474
1998:  1,163

Group
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  821
1981:  1,082
1982:  997
1983:  966
1984*c:  1,287
1985:  1,099
1986:  1,094
1987:  1,615
1988:  1,553
1989:  1,221
1990:  1,245
1991:  1,268
1992:  1,193
1993*c:  1,153
1994:  1,176
1995:  1,309
1996:  1,577
1997:  1,985
1998:  1,546

Group
Montana
Income Year
1980:  526
1981:  508
1982:  522
1983:  499
1984*c:  443
1985:  486
1986:  492
1987:  430
1988:  426
1989:  974
1990:  978
1991:  993
1992:  997
1993*c:  1,078
1994:  962
1995:  1,724
1996:  1,266
1997:  1,327
1998:  1,045

Group
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  889
1981:  741
1982:  740
1983:  761
1984*c:  660
1985:  690
1986:  738
1987:  669
1988:  644
1989:  978
1990:  858
1991:  855
1992:  857
1993*c:  943
1994:  1,017
1995:  1,960
1996:  1,498
1997:  1,698
1998:  1,561

Group
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  556
1981:  678
1982:  656
1983:  628
1984*c:  884
1985:  775
1986:  781
1987:  964
1988:  626
1989:  1,148
1990:  1,300
1991:  1,406
1992:  1,206
1993*c:  1,055
1994:  1,294
1995:  1,589
1996:  1,258
1997:  2,028
1998:  1,639

Group
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  895
1981:  596
1982:  513
1983:  569
1984*c:  706
1985:  734
1986:  695
1987:  821
1988:  772
1989:  1,806
1990:  1,355
1991:  1,206
1992:  1,269
1993*c:  1,380
1994:  1,482
1995:  2,098
1996:  1,719
1997:  1,962
1998:  2,129

Group
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  660
1981:  759
1982:  811
1983:  792
1984*c:  496
1985:  553
1986:  565
1987:  602
1988:  531
1989:  803
1990:  737
1991:  720
1992:  693
1993*c:  763
1994:  766
1995:  1,086
1996:  1,199
1997:  1,376
1998:  1,509

Group
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  610
1981:  760
1982:  710
1983:  665
1984*c:  770
1985:  808
1986:  696
1987:  1,038
1988:  706
1989:  1,242
1990:  1,223
1991:  1,152
1992:  1,240
1993*c:  1,161
1994:  981
1995:  1,520
1996:  1,643
1997:  1,333
1998:  1,299

Group
New York
Income Year
1980:  452
1981:  499
1982:  519
1983:  528
1984*c:  472
1985:  482
1986:  534
1987:  524
1988:  709
1989:  580
1990:  563
1991:  541
1992:  550
1993*c:  539
1994:  562
1995:  863
1996:  957
1997:  981
1998:  1,034

Group
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  727
1981:  801
1982:  829
1983:  808
1984*c:  400
1985:  385
1986:  404
1987:  470
1988:  405
1989:  602
1990:  561
1991:  558
1992:  569
1993*c:  600
1994:  650
1995:  1,102
1996:  1,244
1997:  1,626
1998:  1,367

Group
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  448
1981:  574
1982:  550
1983:  504
1984*c:  443
1985:  425
1986:  498
1987:  392
1988:  349
1989:  852
1990:  1,022
1991:  878
1992:  874
1993*c:  1,065
1994:  1,017
1995:  1,331
1996:  1,331
1997:  1,489
1998:  1,644

Group
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  548
1981:  613
1982:  652
1983:  778
1984*c:  557
1985:  526
1986:  568
1987:  579
1988:  510
1989:  610
1990:  624
1991:  609
1992:  578
1993*c:  586
1994:  595
1995:  922
1996:  1,082
1997:  1,200
1998:  1,460

Group
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  1,245
1981:  967
1982:  1,050
1983:  976
1984*c:  1,111
1985:  1,100
1986:  1,077
1987:  1,093
1988:  1,113
1989:  1,203
1990:  1,090
1991:  1,089
1992:  1,047
1993*c:  1,102
1994:  1,165
1995:  1,356
1996:  1,518
1997:  1,719
1998:  1,568

Group
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  1,168
1981:  815
1982:  959
1983:  919
1984*c:  1,267
1985:  1,335
1986:  1,226
1987:  1,346
1988:  1,073
1989:  1,255
1990:  1,267
1991:  1,131
1992:  1,197
1993*c:  1,228
1994:  1,200
1995:  1,901
1996:  2,008
1997:  1,919
1998:  1,857

Group
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  501
1981:  567
1982:  579
1983:  618
1984*c:  517
1985:  580
1986:  579
1987:  560
1988:  532
1989:  659
1990:  616
1991:  621
1992:  605
1993*c:  625
1994:  641
1995:  1,000
1996:  1,189
1997:  1,112
1998:  1,011

Group
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  826
1981:  528
1982:  688
1983:  577
1984*c:  694
1985:  708
1986:  768
1987:  688
1988:  663
1989:  1,292
1990:  1,401
1991:  1,502
1992:  1,376
1993*c:  1,468
1994:  1,486
1995:  2,141
1996:  2,288
1997:  2,711
1998:  2,734

Group
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  859
1981:  872
1982:  708
1983:  739
1984*c:  998
1985:  988
1986:  1,036
1987:  931
1988:  976
1989:  1,221
1990:  959
1991:  935
1992:  970
1993*c:  1,088
1994:  1,124
1995:  1,611
1996:  2,059
1997:  1,228
1998:  1,643

Group
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  455
1981:  466
1982:  393
1983:  428
1984*c:  358
1985:  374
1986:  354
1987:  384
1988:  337
1989:  1,004
1990:  890
1991:  996
1992:  850
1993*c:  964
1994:  996
1995:  1,312
1996:  1,407
1997:  1,969
1998:  1,657

Group
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  773
1981:  913
1982:  1,135
1983:  1,105
1984*c:  1,344
1985:  1,341
1986:  1,333
1987:  1,408
1988:  1,297
1989:  1,201
1990:  968
1991:  944
1992:  926
1993*c:  1,312
1994:  1,081
1995:  1,998
1996:  1,598
1997:  1,751
1998:  1,578

Group
Texas
Income Year
1980:  524
1981:  735
1982:  796
1983:  767
1984*c:  809
1985:  739
1986:  783
1987:  752
1988:  675
1989:  617
1990:  619
1991:  648
1992:  607
1993*c:  589
1994:  616
1995:  829
1996:  969
1997:  955
1998:  932

Group
Utah
Income Year
1980:  542
1981:  607
1982:  597
1983:  668
1984*c:  708
1985:  755
1986:  722
1987:  795
1988:  657
1989:  1,061
1990:  930
1991:  964
1992:  1,059
1993*c:  957
1994:  1,086
1995:  1,713
1996:  1,455
1997:  1,737
1998:  1,463

Group
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  526
1981:  367
1982:  395
1983:  435
1984*c:  575
1985:  542
1986:  525
1987:  508
1988:  547
1989:  1,451
1990:  1,150
1991:  1,253
1992:  1,172
1993*c:  1,268
1994:  1,087
1995:  1,480
1996:  1,478
1997:  1,504
1998:  1,674

Group
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  860
1981:  1,337
1982:  1,664
1983:  1,478
1984*c:  1,287
1985:  1,351
1986:  1,395
1987:  1,485
1988:  1,561
1989:  1,308
1990:  1,093
1991:  1,187
1992:  1,166
1993*c:  1,101
1994:  1,146
1995:  1,886
1996:  1,796
1997:  2,182
1998:  2,065

Group
Washington
Income Year
1980:  968
1981:  1,179
1982:  1,203
1983:  1,162
1984*c:  1,487
1985:  1,609
1986:  1,864
1987:  1,492
1988:  1,295
1989:  1,132
1990:  1,223
1991:  1,218
1992:  1,155
1993*c:  1,139
1994:  1,405
1995:  1,583
1996:  1,892
1997:  1,758
1998:  1,568

Group
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  731
1981:  542
1982:  660
1983:  656
1984*c:  825
1985:  661
1986:  815
1987:  752
1988:  690
1989:  957
1990:  1,017
1991:  918
1992:  1,126
1993*c:  1,193
1994:  975
1995:  1,181
1996:  1,357
1997:  1,566
1998:  1,346

Group
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  818
1981:  1,084
1982:  1,382
1983:  1,193
1984*c:  1,193
1985:  1,371
1986:  1,143
1987:  1,209
1988:  1,241
1989:  1,126
1990:  1,012
1991:  893
1992:  1,018
1993*c:  1,033
1994:  1,147
1995:  1,517
1996:  1,240
1997:  2,040
1998:  1,660

Group
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  418
1981:  457
1982:  488
1983:  498
1984*c:  669
1985:  541
1986:  493
1987:  568
1988:  553
1989:  1,372
1990:  1,256
1991:  1,271
1992:  1,199
1993*c:  1,241
1994:  1,392
1995:  1,471
1996:  1,061
1997:  1,180
1998:  2,014

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 2d.  Standard Error of Median Household Size-Adjusted Income of 
Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women with a Disability Aged 25 Through 61 for 
the United States, and for Each State and the District of Columbia, Income Years 
1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Group
United States
Income Year
1980:  344
1981:  387
1982:  395
1983:  386
1984*c:  401
1985:  419
1986:  427
1987:  432
1988:  459
1989:  427
1990:  449
1991:  403
1992:  415
1993*c:  385
1994:  400
1995:  547
1996:  474
1997:  532
1998:  547

Group
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  1,588
1981:  2,490
1982:  1,511
1983:  1,706
1984*c:  2,660
1985:  2,507
1986:  2,290
1987:  2,484
1988:  2,658
1989:  2,391
1990:  1,692
1991:  1,954
1992:  3,381
1993*c:  1,903
1994:  1,913
1995:  2,223
1996:  2,467
1997:  3,179
1998:  2,485

Group
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  1,577
1981:  1,920
1982:  1,870
1983:  1,815
1984*c:  1,785
1985:  2,199
1986:  1,705
1987:  1,497
1988:  2,433
1989:  4,204
1990:  4,207
1991:  4,011
1992:  4,269
1993*c:  3,862
1994:  3,916
1995:  5,071
1996:  3,528
1997:  2,278
1998:  3,742

Group
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  2,768
1981:  2,470
1982:  2,541
1983:  3,298
1984*c:  2,977
1985:  3,609
1986:  3,805
1987:  12,137
1988:  6,403
1989:  4,733
1990:  6,650
1991:  6,414
1992:  4,408
1993*c:  4,805
1994:  6,440
1995:  3,960
1996:  2,717
1997:  2,840
1998:  3,362

Group
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  2,074
1981:  1,591
1982:  1,132
1983:  1,874
1984*c:  2,060
1985:  2,271
1986:  1,752
1987:  2,241
1988:  1,470
1989:  1,883
1990:  1,733
1991:  2,155
1992:  1,555
1993*c:  1,725
1994:  2,301
1995:  1,846
1996:  2,572
1997:  2,042
1998:  1,857

Group
California
Income Year
1980:  1,160
1981:  1,271
1982:  1,594
1983:  1,461
1984*c:  1,692
1985:  1,623
1986:  1,783
1987:  2,061
1988:  2,184
1989:  1,644
1990:  2,102
1991:  1,231
1992:  1,484
1993*c:  1,406
1994:  1,565
1995:  2,131
1996:  1,842
1997:  1,769
1998:  2,371

Group
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  2,739
1981:  4,348
1982:  3,472
1983:  4,455
1984*c:  3,254
1985:  8,824
1986:  3,958
1987:  4,398
1988:  4,142
1989:  5,666
1990:  4,260
1991:  3,132
1992:  2,904
1993*c:  6,545
1994:  3,722
1995:  2,851
1996:  2,772
1997:  2,744
1998:  5,010

Group
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  3,785
1981:  6,330
1982:  3,696
1983:  3,550
1984*c:  7,711
1985:  7,484
1986:  5,521
1987:  3,395
1988:  7,392
1989:  8,679
1990:  9,046
1991:  4,321
1992:  3,537
1993*c:  2,970
1994:  10,952
1995:  5,516
1996:  5,126
1997:  5,255
1998:  3,442

Group
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  1,715
1981:  1,222
1982:  1,658
1983:  2,349
1984*c:  1,490
1985:  1,331
1986:  1,284
1987:  1,628
1988:  1,193
1989:  3,818
1990:  3,894
1991:  3,823
1992:  6,361
1993*c:  3,763
1994:  2,838
1995:  3,507
1996:  4,002
1997:  6,689
1998:  3,061

Group
DC
Income Year
1980:  1,954
1981:  1,575
1982:  937
1983:  1,356
1984*c:  1,689
1985:  1,223
1986:  1,916
1987:  1,707
1988:  1,375
1989:  4,775
1990:  3,685
1991:  4,874
1992:  7,794
1993*c:  3,630
1994:  2,627
1995:  1,775
1996:  3,254
1997:  4,170
1998:  4,681

Group
Florida
Income Year
1980:  1,722
1981:  1,937
1982:  1,605
1983:  1,764
1984*c:  1,547
1985:  2,090
1986:  2,265
1987:  1,546
1988:  2,061
1989:  2,096
1990:  1,541
1991:  2,094
1992:  2,030
1993*c:  1,676
1994:  1,578
1995:  4,919
1996:  1,581
1997:  3,126
1998:  2,952

Group
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  2,110
1981:  2,725
1982:  3,460
1983:  2,525
1984*c:  3,477
1985:  3,693
1986:  3,946
1987:  4,870
1988:  2,796
1989:  2,301
1990:  3,464
1991:  2,199
1992:  2,407
1993*c:  1,997
1994:  2,825
1995:  2,398
1996:  3,257
1997:  3,597
1998:  2,815

Group
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  2,032
1981:  1,513
1982:  2,456
1983:  2,298
1984*c:  4,062
1985:  5,114
1986:  1,988
1987:  4,367
1988:  4,509
1989:  4,521
1990:  4,249
1991:  7,509
1992:  4,074
1993*c:  4,402
1994:  4,883
1995:  6,349
1996:  7,676
1997:  6,018
1998:  5,922

Group
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  1,432
1981:  1,613
1982:  1,952
1983:  2,099
1984*c:  1,135
1985:  1,449
1986:  1,784
1987:  2,499
1988:  947
1989:  2,445
1990:  3,427
1991:  1,791
1992:  3,907
1993*c:  3,404
1994:  2,550
1995:  2,379
1996:  3,285
1997:  2,487
1998:  2,610

Group
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  2,064
1981:  1,953
1982:  2,406
1983:  2,238
1984*c:  2,081
1985:  1,759
1986:  1,984
1987:  1,837
1988:  1,923
1989:  2,363
1990:  2,520
1991:  2,618
1992:  2,154
1993*c:  1,560
1994:  1,668
1995:  2,441
1996:  2,770
1997:  4,450
1998:  4,799

Group
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  1,886
1981:  2,005
1982:  3,102
1983:  2,542
1984*c:  2,869
1985:  2,188
1986:  2,543
1987:  2,480
1988:  2,530
1989:  4,427
1990:  3,869
1991:  2,747
1992:  3,474
1993*c:  2,680
1994:  2,553
1995:  3,180
1996:  2,978
1997:  1,703
1998:  2,692

Group
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  2,672
1981:  2,340
1982:  3,053
1983:  5,040
1984*c:  2,393
1985:  3,823
1986:  2,395
1987:  2,701
1988:  3,458
1989:  3,710
1990:  4,700
1991:  1,786
1992:  2,990
1993*c:  2,193
1994:  3,732
1995:  2,381
1996:  2,726
1997:  2,804
1998:  4,584

Group
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  2,871
1981:  3,608
1982:  2,459
1983:  3,329
1984*c:  2,836
1985:  3,078
1986:  3,384
1987:  2,191
1988:  6,850
1989:  3,234
1990:  3,271
1991:  3,942
1992:  3,124
1993*c:  4,050
1994:  2,349
1995:  4,464
1996:  4,888
1997:  2,920
1998:  5,204

Group
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  2,293
1981:  3,091
1982:  1,669
1983:  3,635
1984*c:  3,758
1985:  2,321
1986:  4,219
1987:  2,208
1988:  2,041
1989:  2,660
1990:  1,828
1991:  2,483
1992:  1,796
1993*c:  1,632
1994:  1,799
1995:  2,001
1996:  2,216
1997:  3,088
1998:  2,939

Group
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  2,211
1981:  3,405
1982:  3,231
1983:  2,166
1984*c:  3,213
1985:  3,684
1986:  2,626
1987:  1,718
1988:  3,190
1989:  2,329
1990:  2,175
1991:  2,803
1992:  2,323
1993*c:  2,650
1994:  4,049
1995:  1,761
1996:  2,181
1997:  3,329
1998:  2,864

Group
Maine
Income Year
1980:  1,676
1981:  1,654
1982:  1,586
1983:  1,355
1984*c:  2,299
1985:  958
1986:  1,487
1987:  1,405
1988:  1,385
1989:  3,891
1990:  3,205
1991:  2,681
1992:  2,426
1993*c:  2,235
1994:  2,051
1995:  2,018
1996:  4,202
1997:  2,400
1998:  2,405

Group
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  3,601
1981:  4,189
1982:  4,095
1983:  4,243
1984*c:  2,814
1985:  4,191
1986:  6,847
1987:  4,564
1988:  4,206
1989:  4,099
1990:  3,818
1991:  3,694
1992:  4,949
1993*c:  4,108
1994:  2,665
1995:  3,820
1996:  2,727
1997:  3,929
1998:  3,737

Group
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  1,950
1981:  2,796
1982:  2,108
1983:  2,988
1984*c:  1,446
1985:  1,668
1986:  1,332
1987:  1,584
1988:  1,675
1989:  2,149
1990:  2,319
1991:  1,816
1992:  2,455
1993*c:  2,063
1994:  2,677
1995:  3,215
1996:  2,674
1997:  6,038
1998:  2,485

Group
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  1,651
1981:  1,955
1982:  2,117
1983:  1,596
1984*c:  1,418
1985:  1,534
1986:  1,382
1987:  1,581
1988:  1,181
1989:  1,770
1990:  2,132
1991:  1,597
1992:  1,500
1993*c:  1,883
1994:  1,552
1995:  1,786
1996:  2,635
1997:  1,846
1998:  1,496

Group
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  3,204
1981:  3,608
1982:  4,481
1983:  4,086
1984*c:  3,965
1985:  4,761
1986:  4,080
1987:  5,598
1988:  6,956
1989:  3,549
1990:  4,224
1991:  3,826
1992:  3,695
1993*c:  3,746
1994:  3,076
1995:  4,146
1996:  2,714
1997:  2,201
1998:  4,362

Group
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  1,058
1981:  2,669
1982:  2,004
1983:  1,947
1984*c:  1,152
1985:  1,378
1986:  2,942
1987:  1,889
1988:  1,349
1989:  1,765
1990:  1,383
1991:  3,084
1992:  2,629
1993*c:  2,551
1994:  3,756
1995:  1,646
1996:  6,914
1997:  1,901
1998:  3,353

Group
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  1,921
1981:  3,959
1982:  2,924
1983:  3,007
1984*c:  2,801
1985:  2,920
1986:  3,355
1987:  3,467
1988:  3,993
1989:  4,021
1990:  3,150
1991:  2,316
1992:  3,180
1993*c:  1,862
1994:  4,594
1995:  2,807
1996:  1,936
1997:  2,579
1998:  2,714

Group
Montana
Income Year
1980:  1,962
1981:  1,805
1982:  1,694
1983:  1,327
1984*c:  1,845
1985:  2,034
1986:  2,056
1987:  1,377
1988:  1,487
1989:  3,319
1990:  2,296
1991:  3,580
1992:  2,458
1993*c:  3,499
1994:  2,179
1995:  5,089
1996:  4,165
1997:  2,282
1998:  1,902

Group
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  2,919
1981:  2,058
1982:  2,512
1983:  2,450
1984*c:  2,466
1985:  2,013
1986:  2,439
1987:  2,092
1988:  5,225
1989:  3,510
1990:  5,227
1991:  3,722
1992:  4,452
1993*c:  3,643
1994:  7,168
1995:  4,189
1996:  4,426
1997:  2,866
1998:  6,565

Group
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  1,740
1981:  1,946
1982:  3,477
1983:  3,044
1984*c:  2,496
1985:  2,331
1986:  6,218
1987:  2,650
1988:  1,717
1989:  3,999
1990:  3,481
1991:  3,290
1992:  3,483
1993*c:  4,832
1994:  3,057
1995:  6,518
1996:  5,598
1997:  3,121
1998:  4,260

Group
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  2,182
1981:  2,100
1982:  1,927
1983:  2,429
1984*c:  2,630
1985:  2,184
1986:  2,445
1987:  2,517
1988:  1,772
1989:  3,652
1990:  5,511
1991:  3,149
1992:  3,943
1993*c:  7,082
1994:  6,409
1995:  3,642
1996:  2,810
1997:  4,649
1998:  4,027

Group
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  2,642
1981:  2,065
1982:  3,050
1983:  3,199
1984*c:  2,096
1985:  1,694
1986:  1,719
1987:  1,915
1988:  1,597
1989:  2,215
1990:  2,545
1991:  3,200
1992:  1,947
1993*c:  2,248
1994:  1,883
1995:  2,679
1996:  1,877
1997:  2,729
1998:  5,630

Group
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  2,267
1981:  2,218
1982:  2,068
1983:  1,496
1984*c:  2,079
1985:  1,873
1986:  1,574
1987:  2,479
1988:  1,038
1989:  2,151
1990:  2,352
1991:  3,504
1992:  2,516
1993*c:  3,639
1994:  1,917
1995:  3,081
1996:  6,355
1997:  3,318
1998:  3,652

Group
New York
Income Year
1980:  1,338
1981:  1,130
1982:  1,268
1983:  1,322
1984*c:  960
1985:  1,239
1986:  1,451
1987:  1,248
1988:  2,145
1989:  1,640
1990:  1,470
1991:  1,371
1992:  1,232
1993*c:  1,154
1994:  1,207
1995:  1,973
1996:  1,457
1997:  2,271
1998:  1,297

Group
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  1,636
1981:  1,792
1982:  1,996
1983:  2,170
1984*c:  1,055
1985:  793
1986:  1,130
1987:  1,457
1988:  1,149
1989:  1,458
1990:  1,568
1991:  1,591
1992:  1,688
1993*c:  1,265
1994:  1,162
1995:  1,623
1996:  1,751
1997:  3,298
1998:  1,568

Group
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  1,723
1981:  4,232
1982:  2,374
1983:  2,910
1984*c:  1,316
1985:  2,351
1986:  1,869
1987:  1,523
1988:  1,350
1989:  2,697
1990:  3,266
1991:  3,656
1992:  3,411
1993*c:  4,268
1994:  3,826
1995:  3,203
1996:  8,059
1997:  3,496
1998:  2,673

Group
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  1,778
1981:  2,491
1982:  2,336
1983:  1,814
1984*c:  1,365
1985:  1,763
1986:  1,553
1987:  1,605
1988:  1,833
1989:  1,766
1990:  2,002
1991:  1,371
1992:  1,837
1993*c:  1,758
1994:  1,613
1995:  1,670
1996:  1,544
1997:  2,622
1998:  2,641

Group
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  2,989
1981:  4,282
1982:  4,253
1983:  1,661
1984*c:  2,288
1985:  2,412
1986:  2,495
1987:  1,652
1988:  1,867
1989:  1,690
1990:  2,175
1991:  2,714
1992:  3,272
1993*c:  1,736
1994:  2,868
1995:  2,530
1996:  2,856
1997:  2,454
1998:  3,081

Group
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  3,090
1981:  2,116
1982:  2,916
1983:  2,342
1984*c:  3,097
1985:  2,475
1986:  3,721
1987:  3,539
1988:  2,174
1989:  2,397
1990:  3,043
1991:  2,655
1992:  2,344
1993*c:  4,954
1994:  2,734
1995:  2,718
1996:  2,970
1997:  2,920
1998:  3,150

Group
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  1,471
1981:  1,507
1982:  1,860
1983:  1,776
1984*c:  1,222
1985:  1,535
1986:  1,742
1987:  1,563
1988:  1,510
1989:  2,187
1990:  1,444
1991:  1,649
1992:  1,327
1993*c:  1,441
1994:  1,694
1995:  2,381
1996:  1,506
1997:  1,723
1998:  1,545

Group
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  2,034
1981:  1,312
1982:  1,896
1983:  1,420
1984*c:  2,139
1985:  1,591
1986:  2,462
1987:  1,850
1988:  1,882
1989:  3,488
1990:  4,010
1991:  5,443
1992:  5,387
1993*c:  2,897
1994:  1,945
1995:  2,192
1996:  2,472
1997:  3,382
1998:  2,707

Group
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  2,435
1981:  1,891
1982:  2,579
1983:  3,241
1984*c:  2,635
1985:  1,631
1986:  2,660
1987:  2,270
1988:  1,471
1989:  1,953
1990:  2,155
1991:  1,794
1992:  2,397
1993*c:  2,439
1994:  3,032
1995:  2,924
1996:  2,668
1997:  3,269
1998:  3,778

Group
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  2,284
1981:  1,256
1982:  900
1983:  1,466
1984*c:  1,236
1985:  1,025
1986:  1,809
1987:  1,125
1988:  774
1989:  2,927
1990:  1,693
1991:  2,690
1992:  2,214
1993*c:  2,131
1994:  2,348
1995:  4,895
1996:  2,597
1997:  10,402
1998:  5,383

Group
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  2,019
1981:  2,340
1982:  1,873
1983:  2,065
1984*c:  2,904
1985:  3,477
1986:  1,940
1987:  3,246
1988:  2,485
1989:  1,870
1990:  1,368
1991:  1,968
1992:  2,904
1993*c:  1,422
1994:  1,495
1995:  3,071
1996:  5,072
1997:  3,941
1998:  3,506

Group
Texas
Income Year
1980:  1,509
1981:  2,328
1982:  2,477
1983:  2,509
1984*c:  3,388
1985:  1,942
1986:  2,048
1987:  2,609
1988:  2,098
1989:  1,525
1990:  1,975
1991:  1,225
1992:  1,215
1993*c:  1,449
1994:  1,722
1995:  1,846
1996:  1,756
1997:  2,086
1998:  3,126

Group
Utah
Income Year
1980:  2,237
1981:  2,273
1982:  1,718
1983:  1,824
1984*c:  2,480
1985:  4,167
1986:  2,478
1987:  2,788
1988:  2,008
1989:  2,644
1990:  3,065
1991:  3,060
1992:  6,540
1993*c:  2,897
1994:  5,821
1995:  4,055
1996:  2,686
1997:  5,215
1998:  9,376

Group
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  1,480
1981:  1,160
1982:  1,103
1983:  919
1984*c:  1,468
1985:  1,004
1986:  1,268
1987:  1,781
1988:  868
1989:  2,861
1990:  1,925
1991:  2,170
1992:  2,136
1993*c:  1,951
1994:  4,089
1995:  3,815
1996:  3,024
1997:  4,327
1998:  6,701

Group
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  3,050
1981:  3,522
1982:  4,062
1983:  4,834
1984*c:  5,822
1985:  3,146
1986:  3,709
1987:  4,845
1988:  5,909
1989:  3,564
1990:  4,261
1991:  3,590
1992:  5,237
1993*c:  4,320
1994:  3,450
1995:  6,023
1996:  3,313
1997:  2,065
1998:  6,414

Group
Washington
Income Year
1980:  2,407
1981:  5,791
1982:  3,995
1983:  5,126
1984*c:  6,478
1985:  5,765
1986:  4,499
1987:  4,559
1988:  4,565
1989:  3,215
1990:  2,391
1991:  4,137
1992:  6,298
1993*c:  4,416
1994:  2,399
1995:  9,071
1996:  2,681
1997:  3,734
1998:  3,274

Group
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  2,367
1981:  1,370
1982:  1,358
1983:  1,146
1984*c:  2,165
1985:  3,168
1986:  2,189
1987:  1,730
1988:  1,308
1989:  2,548
1990:  2,839
1991:  2,815
1992:  1,570
1993*c:  2,117
1994:  1,935
1995:  1,235
1996:  1,678
1997:  1,335
1998:  1,565

Group
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  3,831
1981:  3,683
1982:  4,448
1983:  2,808
1984*c:  3,716
1985:  3,610
1986:  8,800
1987:  6,183
1988:  4,686
1989:  3,192
1990:  2,623
1991:  2,695
1992:  2,376
1993*c:  2,815
1994:  2,964
1995:  6,237
1996:  8,081
1997:  3,863
1998:  6,401

Group
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  1,368
1981:  1,388
1982:  1,311
1983:  1,241
1984*c:  1,443
1985:  1,278
1986:  1,686
1987:  1,115
1988:  1,512
1989:  3,190
1990:  5,280
1991:  3,331
1992:  8,107
1993*c:  3,184
1994:  3,640
1995:  3,744
1996:  3,099
1997:  3,676
1998:  3,170

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.



Appendix Table 3a.  Estimated Population of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men 
without a Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State 
and the District of Columbia, Income Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Location
United States
Income Year
1980:  45,139
1981:  45,989
1982:  47,035
1983:  47,949
1984*c:  48,726
1985:  49,984
1986:  50,899
1987:  52,084
1988:  53,103
1989:  53,860
1990:  54,760
1991:  55,332
1992:  56,091
1993*c:  56,767
1994:  57,502
1995:  58,529
1996:  59,475
1997:  60,337
1998:  60,600

Location
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  703
1981:  728
1982:  791
1983:  806
1984*c:  779
1985:  826
1986:  810
1987:  831
1988:  850
1989:  835
1990:  851
1991:  856
1992:  887
1993*c:  824
1994:  897
1995:  850
1996:  850
1997:  939
1998:  914

Location
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  82
1981:  86
1982:  101
1983:  108
1984*c:  112
1985:  123
1986:  115
1987:  112
1988:  112
1989:  116
1990:  119
1991:  121
1992:  128
1993*c:  138
1994:  140
1995:  146
1996:  149
1997:  149
1998:  144

Location
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  512
1981:  534
1982:  541
1983:  594
1984*c:  615
1985:  700
1986:  701
1987:  735
1988:  764
1989:  731
1990:  754
1991:  788
1992:  702
1993*c:  877
1994:  911
1995:  883
1996:  939
1997:  975
1998:  1,055

Location
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  400
1981:  394
1982:  384
1983:  397
1984*c:  420
1985:  441
1986:  427
1987:  471
1988:  483
1989:  464
1990:  476
1991:  482
1992:  483
1993*c:  481
1994:  536
1995:  497
1996:  513
1997:  486
1998:  483

Location
California
Income Year
1980:  5,035
1981:  5,155
1982:  5,345
1983:  5,433
1984*c:  5,622
1985:  5,934
1986:  6,073
1987:  6,358
1988:  6,293
1989:  6,604
1990:  6,834
1991:  7,133
1992:  7,145
1993*c:  7,118
1994:  7,246
1995:  7,395
1996:  7,686
1997:  7,616
1998:  7,680

Location
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  667
1981:  650
1982:  694
1983:  734
1984*c:  706
1985:  755
1986:  690
1987:  740
1988:  695
1989:  706
1990:  774
1991:  818
1992:  775
1993*c:  869
1994:  936
1995:  948
1996:  932
1997:  985
1998:  1,022

Location
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  641
1981:  674
1982:  716
1983:  735
1984*c:  739
1985:  689
1986:  716
1987:  694
1988:  757
1989:  823
1990:  760
1991:  762
1992:  795
1993*c:  731
1994:  696
1995:  740
1996:  711
1997:  736
1998:  730

Location
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  120
1981:  121
1982:  126
1983:  120
1984*c:  124
1985:  134
1986:  143
1987:  148
1988:  153
1989:  154
1990:  166
1991:  159
1992:  178
1993*c:  172
1994:  159
1995:  166
1996:  165
1997:  153
1998:  164

Location
DC
Income Year
1980:  126
1981:  133
1982:  141
1983:  140
1984*c:  130
1985:  138
1986:  133
1987:  138
1988:  135
1989:  131
1990:  127
1991:  119
1992:  131
1993*c:  148
1994:  141
1995:  115
1996:  123
1997:  125
1998:  120

Location
Florida
Income Year
1980:  1,858
1981:  1,865
1982:  1,912
1983:  2,035
1984*c:  2,161
1985:  2,264
1986:  2,334
1987:  2,435
1988:  2,638
1989:  2,689
1990:  2,734
1991:  2,737
1992:  2,932
1993*c:  2,840
1994:  2,882
1995:  2,995
1996:  3,072
1997:  3,206
1998:  3,075

Location
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  988
1981:  1,058
1982:  1,099
1983:  1,161
1984*c:  1,123
1985:  1,172
1986:  1,277
1987:  1,271
1988:  1,318
1989:  1,333
1990:  1,419
1991:  1,342
1992:  1,397
1993*c:  1,573
1994:  1,621
1995:  1,576
1996:  1,735
1997:  1,685
1998:  1,660

Location
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  187
1981:  194
1982:  191
1983:  204
1984*c:  211
1985:  221
1986:  211
1987:  228
1988:  225
1989:  239
1990:  257
1991:  250
1992:  256
1993*c:  246
1994:  253
1995:  256
1996:  253
1997:  241
1998:  258

Location
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  176
1981:  192
1982:  184
1983:  187
1984*c:  193
1985:  198
1986:  192
1987:  189
1988:  203
1989:  213
1990:  221
1991:  217
1992:  222
1993*c:  242
1994:  254
1995:  253
1996:  264
1997:  273
1998:  284

Location
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  2,260
1981:  2,315
1982:  2,454
1983:  2,432
1984*c:  2,434
1985:  2,448
1986:  2,486
1987:  2,518
1988:  2,572
1989:  2,653
1990:  2,652
1991:  2,670
1992:  2,648
1993*c:  2,579
1994:  2,545
1995:  2,652
1996:  2,566
1997:  2,687
1998:  2,738

Location
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  1,083
1981:  1,095
1982:  1,098
1983:  1,122
1984*c:  1,226
1985:  1,181
1986:  1,134
1987:  1,165
1988:  1,254
1989:  1,217
1990:  1,175
1991:  1,181
1992:  1,268
1993*c:  1,235
1994:  1,226
1995:  1,301
1996:  1,307
1997:  1,362
1998:  1,331

Location
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  573
1981:  571
1982:  560
1983:  583
1984*c:  594
1985:  549
1986:  595
1987:  620
1988:  626
1989:  629
1990:  625
1991:  607
1992:  638
1993*c:  616
1994:  597
1995:  620
1996:  644
1997:  636
1998:  638

Location
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  450
1981:  442
1982:  488
1983:  496
1984*c:  529
1985:  481
1986:  497
1987:  516
1988:  511
1989:  529
1990:  531
1991:  546
1992:  570
1993*c:  528
1994:  545
1995:  547
1996:  538
1997:  554
1998:  561

Location
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  704
1981:  705
1982:  731
1983:  741
1984*c:  746
1985:  751
1986:  721
1987:  762
1988:  695
1989:  717
1990:  732
1991:  706
1992:  747
1993*c:  751
1994:  773
1995:  807
1996:  800
1997:  813
1998:  807

Location
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  756
1981:  806
1982:  838
1983:  855
1984*c:  823
1985:  836
1986:  866
1987:  829
1988:  853
1989:  828
1990:  796
1991:  886
1992:  823
1993*c:  775
1994:  884
1995:  903
1996:  881
1997:  941
1998:  850

Location
Maine
Income Year
1980:  214
1981:  226
1982:  233
1983:  232
1984*c:  236
1985:  233
1986:  245
1987:  242
1988:  253
1989:  267
1990:  274
1991:  278
1992:  279
1993*c:  268
1994:  258
1995:  285
1996:  291
1997:  275
1998:  287

Location
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  931
1981:  900
1982:  879
1983:  935
1984*c:  930
1985:  947
1986:  1,016
1987:  1,033
1988:  1,082
1989:  1,083
1990:  1,171
1991:  1,144
1992:  1,193
1993*c:  1,139
1994:  1,204
1995:  1,178
1996:  1,158
1997:  1,214
1998:  1,226

Location
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  1,176
1981:  1,226
1982:  1,219
1983:  1,269
1984*c:  1,223
1985:  1,214
1986:  1,257
1987:  1,279
1988:  1,332
1989:  1,302
1990:  1,320
1991:  1,386
1992:  1,405
1993*c:  1,400
1994:  1,382
1995:  1,445
1996:  1,410
1997:  1,388
1998:  1,403

Location
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  1,849
1981:  1,826
1982:  1,781
1983:  1,870
1984*c:  1,825
1985:  1,868
1986:  1,899
1987:  1,996
1988:  2,007
1989:  1,954
1990:  2,071
1991:  2,063
1992:  2,055
1993*c:  2,102
1994:  2,062
1995:  2,089
1996:  2,112
1997:  2,123
1998:  2,242

Location
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  812
1981:  846
1982:  865
1983:  932
1984*c:  891
1985:  885
1986:  952
1987:  964
1988:  984
1989:  926
1990:  951
1991:  944
1992:  987
1993*c:  1,004
1994:  1,110
1995:  1,073
1996:  1,116
1997:  1,079
1998:  1,080

Location
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  420
1981:  414
1982:  448
1983:  456
1984*c:  424
1985:  485
1986:  506
1987:  505
1988:  482
1989:  494
1990:  497
1991:  502
1992:  509
1993*c:  483
1994:  519
1995:  503
1996:  544
1997:  564
1998:  538

Location
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  970
1981:  1,001
1982:  978
1983:  985
1984*c:  999
1985:  1,020
1986:  1,070
1987:  1,098
1988:  1,115
1989:  1,080
1990:  1,147
1991:  1,152
1992:  1,088
1993*c:  1,156
1994:  1,096
1995:  1,204
1996:  1,140
1997:  1,098
1998:  1,280

Location
Montana
Income Year
1980:  172
1981:  177
1982:  170
1983:  178
1984*c:  180
1985:  167
1986:  168
1987:  164
1988:  168
1989:  178
1990:  183
1991:  178
1992:  178
1993*c:  184
1994:  185
1995:  182
1996:  191
1997:  200
1998:  196

Location
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  308
1981:  317
1982:  318
1983:  307
1984*c:  316
1985:  328
1986:  321
1987:  339
1988:  341
1989:  343
1990:  336
1991:  347
1992:  346
1993*c:  333
1994:  339
1995:  345
1996:  366
1997:  351
1998:  388

Location
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  202
1981:  213
1982:  224
1983:  220
1984*c:  210
1985:  225
1986:  235
1987:  247
1988:  280
1989:  287
1990:  286
1991:  292
1992:  315
1993*c:  370
1994:  386
1995:  389
1996:  409
1997:  399
1998:  444

Location
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  200
1981:  196
1982:  197
1983:  207
1984*c:  204
1985:  224
1986:  231
1987:  247
1988:  252
1989:  252
1990:  283
1991:  280
1992:  286
1993*c:  277
1994:  266
1995:  263
1996:  280
1997:  272
1998:  298

Location
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  1,536
1981:  1,502
1982:  1,520
1983:  1,601
1984*c:  1,650
1985:  1,642
1986:  1,665
1987:  1,742
1988:  1,773
1989:  1,825
1990:  1,821
1991:  1,846
1992:  1,877
1993*c:  1,868
1994:  1,871
1995:  1,850
1996:  1,871
1997:  1,885
1998:  1,855

Location
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  238
1981:  225
1982:  247
1983:  255
1984*c:  286
1985:  299
1986:  303
1987:  289
1988:  285
1989:  316
1990:  322
1991:  320
1992:  313
1993*c:  328
1994:  339
1995:  350
1996:  363
1997:  358
1998:  370

Location
New York
Income Year
1980:  3,450
1981:  3,535
1982:  3,505
1983:  3,467
1984*c:  3,614
1985:  3,692
1986:  3,795
1987:  3,725
1988:  3,808
1989:  3,947
1990:  3,917
1991:  3,880
1992:  3,802
1993*c:  3,950
1994:  3,908
1995:  4,074
1996:  4,028
1997:  3,986
1998:  3,937

Location
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  1,218
1981:  1,177
1982:  1,223
1983:  1,244
1984*c:  1,264
1985:  1,282
1986:  1,314
1987:  1,363
1988:  1,423
1989:  1,441
1990:  1,448
1991:  1,447
1992:  1,431
1993*c:  1,452
1994:  1,511
1995:  1,595
1996:  1,668
1997:  1,661
1998:  1,669

Location
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  128
1981:  131
1982:  132
1983:  138
1984*c:  145
1985:  138
1986:  130
1987:  139
1988:  139
1989:  135
1990:  128
1991:  133
1992:  129
1993*c:  131
1994:  130
1995:  138
1996:  136
1997:  132
1998:  134

Location
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  2,103
1981:  2,235
1982:  2,264
1983:  2,195
1984*c:  2,186
1985:  2,250
1986:  2,252
1987:  2,345
1988:  2,292
1989:  2,272
1990:  2,342
1991:  2,390
1992:  2,475
1993*c:  2,444
1994:  2,343
1995:  2,480
1996:  2,488
1997:  2,477
1998:  2,498

Location
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  570
1981:  583
1982:  584
1983:  598
1984*c:  670
1985:  645
1986:  655
1987:  656
1988:  652
1989:  685
1990:  662
1991:  681
1992:  660
1993*c:  694
1994:  669
1995:  648
1996:  660
1997:  713
1998:  699

Location
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  569
1981:  555
1982:  553
1983:  577
1984*c:  586
1985:  591
1986:  607
1987:  597
1988:  599
1989:  622
1990:  644
1991:  644
1992:  699
1993*c:  730
1994:  768
1995:  722
1996:  727
1997:  813
1998:  802

Location
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  2,403
1981:  2,443
1982:  2,437
1983:  2,372
1984*c:  2,282
1985:  2,451
1986:  2,480
1987:  2,566
1988:  2,611
1989:  2,698
1990:  2,535
1991:  2,567
1992:  2,580
1993*c:  2,644
1994:  2,624
1995:  2,598
1996:  2,617
1997:  2,693
1998:  2,662

Location
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  172
1981:  172
1982:  179
1983:  195
1984*c:  188
1985:  196
1986:  223
1987:  223
1988:  216
1989:  215
1990:  220
1991:  230
1992:  224
1993*c:  222
1994:  208
1995:  211
1996:  208
1997:  207
1998:  232

Location
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  622
1981:  620
1982:  612
1983:  600
1984*c:  685
1985:  659
1986:  656
1987:  698
1988:  762
1989:  716
1990:  739
1991:  779
1992:  751
1993*c:  778
1994:  786
1995:  797
1996:  838
1997:  857
1998:  848

Location
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  127
1981:  128
1982:  133
1983:  145
1984*c:  141
1985:  140
1986:  138
1987:  147
1988:  153
1989:  149
1990:  149
1991:  145
1992:  157
1993*c:  156
1994:  161
1995:  159
1996:  152
1997:  144
1998:  152

Location
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  932
1981:  864
1982:  897
1983:  942
1984*c:  947
1985:  928
1986:  936
1987:  1,056
1988:  1,039
1989:  1,027
1990:  1,047
1991:  952
1992:  990
1993*c:  1,089
1994:  1,022
1995:  1,163
1996:  1,103
1997:  1,241
1998:  1,216

Location
Texas
Income Year
1980:  2,847
1981:  3,064
1982:  3,110
1983:  3,247
1984*c:  3,357
1985:  3,426
1986:  3,590
1987:  3,398
1988:  3,512
1989:  3,589
1990:  3,797
1991:  3,740
1992:  3,941
1993*c:  4,017
1994:  4,152
1995:  4,205
1996:  4,350
1997:  4,394
1998:  4,463

Location
Utah
Income Year
1980:  261
1981:  264
1982:  280
1983:  276
1984*c:  296
1985:  306
1986:  322
1987:  320
1988:  320
1989:  310
1990:  321
1991:  314
1992:  344
1993*c:  396
1994:  397
1995:  403
1996:  394
1997:  409
1998:  430

Location
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  108
1981:  114
1982:  110
1983:  111
1984*c:  118
1985:  117
1986:  114
1987:  118
1988:  122
1989:  127
1990:  118
1991:  128
1992:  144
1993*c:  141
1994:  135
1995:  141
1996:  142
1997:  135
1998:  150

Location
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  1,052
1981:  1,041
1982:  1,151
1983:  1,154
1984*c:  1,195
1985:  1,225
1986:  1,244
1987:  1,276
1988:  1,273
1989:  1,325
1990:  1,389
1991:  1,474
1992:  1,525
1993*c:  1,456
1994:  1,562
1995:  1,382
1996:  1,507
1997:  1,547
1998:  1,531

Location
Washington
Income Year
1980:  810
1981:  845
1982:  917
1983:  904
1984*c:  936
1985:  993
1986:  918
1987:  1,005
1988:  1,102
1989:  1,143
1990:  1,076
1991:  1,114
1992:  1,140
1993*c:  1,210
1994:  1,219
1995:  1,304
1996:  1,394
1997:  1,449
1998:  1,372

Location
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  355
1981:  335
1982:  359
1983:  369
1984*c:  377
1985:  360
1986:  369
1987:  357
1988:  372
1989:  371
1990:  378
1991:  372
1992:  363
1993*c:  353
1994:  366
1995:  357
1996:  354
1997:  371
1998:  352

Location
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  961
1981:  980
1982:  997
1983:  972
1984*c:  968
1985:  1,099
1986:  1,063
1987:  1,086
1988:  1,118
1989:  1,070
1990:  1,074
1991:  1,126
1992:  1,076
1993*c:  1,148
1994:  1,168
1995:  1,233
1996:  1,232
1997:  1,236
1998:  1,224

Location
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  105
1981:  116
1982:  116
1983:  115
1984*c:  109
1985:  108
1986:  104
1987:  103
1988:  101
1989:  103
1990:  106
1991:  104
1992:  104
1993*c:  103
1994:  112
1995:  110
1996:  99
1997:  105
1998:  111

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 3b.  Estimated Population of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men 
with a Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State 
and the District of Columbia, Income Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Location
United States
Income Year
1980:  4,006
1981:  4,102
1982:  3,988
1983:  4,166
1984*c:  4,372
1985:  4,502
1986:  4,543
1987:  4,361
1988:  4,393
1989:  4,594
1990:  4,575
1991:  4,865
1992:  5,137
1993*c:  5,470
1994:  5,352
1995:  5,243
1996:  5,352
1997:  5,110
1998:  5,252

Location
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  79
1981:  81
1982:  71
1983:  92
1984*c:  48
1985:  65
1986:  79
1987:  65
1988:  77
1989:  106
1990:  97
1991:  123
1992:  91
1993*c:  139
1994:  92
1995:  121
1996:  125
1997:  99
1998:  87

Location
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  6
1981:  6
1982:  7
1983:  6
1984*c:  7
1985:  6
1986:  9
1987:  6
1988:  10
1989:  6
1990:  8
1991:  8
1992:  7
1993*c:  11
1994:  13
1995:  13
1996:  14
1997:  14
1998:  10

Location
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  50
1981:  57
1982:  66
1983:  40
1984*c:  40
1985:  66
1986:  79
1987:  80
1988:  53
1989:  75
1990:  56
1991:  54
1992:  91
1993*c:  79
1994:  72
1995:  67
1996:  100
1997:  60
1998:  64

Location
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  63
1981:  63
1982:  51
1983:  48
1984*c:  67
1985:  76
1986:  76
1987:  65
1988:  51
1989:  48
1990:  57
1991:  58
1992:  52
1993*c:  76
1994:  49
1995:  83
1996:  83
1997:  82
1998:  63

Location
California
Income Year
1980:  393
1981:  486
1982:  426
1983:  401
1984*c:  467
1985:  494
1986:  478
1987:  489
1988:  455
1989:  520
1990:  524
1991:  512
1992:  637
1993*c:  603
1994:  601
1995:  610
1996:  608
1997:  569
1998:  592

Location
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  29
1981:  39
1982:  59
1983:  62
1984*c:  54
1985:  39
1986:  74
1987:  54
1988:  58
1989:  74
1990:  50
1991:  68
1992:  86
1993*c:  48
1994:  62
1995:  71
1996:  66
1997:  61
1998:  75

Location
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  41
1981:  36
1982:  37
1983:  38
1984*c:  52
1985:  41
1986:  27
1987:  40
1988:  37
1989:  28
1990:  32
1991:  51
1992:  42
1993*c:  50
1994:  41
1995:  38
1996:  47
1997:  83
1998:  85

Location
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  11
1981:  14
1982:  9
1983:  10
1984*c:  11
1985:  9
1986:  9
1987:  7
1988:  12
1989:  13
1990:  10
1991:  13
1992:  16
1993*c:  14
1994:  16
1995:  11
1996:  11
1997:  9
1998:  9

Location
DC
Income Year
1980:  17
1981:  12
1982:  11
1983:  16
1984*c:  17
1985:  12
1986:  12
1987:  11
1988:  10
1989:  12
1990:  22
1991:  11
1992:  12
1993*c:  14
1994:  13
1995:  16
1996:  13
1997:  9
1998:  13

Location
Florida
Income Year
1980:  158
1981:  186
1982:  202
1983:  192
1984*c:  218
1985:  211
1986:  208
1987:  232
1988:  264
1989:  246
1990:  244
1991:  286
1992:  255
1993*c:  327
1994:  317
1995:  280
1996:  337
1997:  308
1998:  351

Location
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  141
1981:  113
1982:  103
1983:  97
1984*c:  134
1985:  172
1986:  148
1987:  108
1988:  115
1989:  124
1990:  130
1991:  134
1992:  154
1993*c:  159
1994:  173
1995:  183
1996:  161
1997:  153
1998:  187

Location
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  17
1981:  19
1982:  16
1983:  16
1984*c:  21
1985:  19
1986:  22
1987:  11
1988:  11
1989:  17
1990:  10
1991:  20
1992:  21
1993*c:  23
1994:  21
1995:  13
1996:  19
1997:  20
1998:  15

Location
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  16
1981:  11
1982:  19
1983:  22
1984*c:  25
1985:  23
1986:  21
1987:  21
1988:  10
1989:  22
1990:  19
1991:  22
1992:  19
1993*c:  16
1994:  25
1995:  27
1996:  21
1997:  29
1998:  15

Location
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  177
1981:  164
1982:  139
1983:  173
1984*c:  159
1985:  151
1986:  184
1987:  196
1988:  161
1989:  189
1990:  199
1991:  199
1992:  231
1993*c:  224
1994:  199
1995:  175
1996:  219
1997:  179
1998:  226

Location
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  62
1981:  99
1982:  98
1983:  83
1984*c:  63
1985:  84
1986:  114
1987:  109
1988:  79
1989:  75
1990:  91
1991:  96
1992:  63
1993*c:  72
1994:  102
1995:  88
1996:  104
1997:  75
1998:  128

Location
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  31
1981:  36
1982:  36
1983:  43
1984*c:  37
1985:  46
1986:  47
1987:  41
1988:  31
1989:  42
1990:  41
1991:  46
1992:  58
1993*c:  61
1994:  64
1995:  39
1996:  37
1997:  35
1998:  42

Location
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  26
1981:  22
1982:  24
1983:  31
1984*c:  29
1985:  35
1986:  37
1987:  27
1988:  27
1989:  30
1990:  23
1991:  33
1992:  43
1993*c:  44
1994:  40
1995:  64
1996:  53
1997:  41
1998:  39

Location
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  80
1981:  97
1982:  72
1983:  98
1984*c:  83
1985:  84
1986:  83
1987:  90
1988:  90
1989:  103
1990:  121
1991:  117
1992:  140
1993*c:  149
1994:  123
1995:  133
1996:  92
1997:  97
1998:  123

Location
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  102
1981:  94
1982:  99
1983:  89
1984*c:  70
1985:  109
1986:  103
1987:  103
1988:  119
1989:  114
1990:  91
1991:  59
1992:  87
1993*c:  166
1994:  123
1995:  125
1996:  119
1997:  102
1998:  105

Location
Maine
Income Year
1980:  23
1981:  24
1982:  22
1983:  25
1984*c:  27
1985:  25
1986:  27
1987:  25
1988:  28
1989:  27
1990:  27
1991:  34
1992:  43
1993*c:  31
1994:  41
1995:  30
1996:  31
1997:  39
1998:  34

Location
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  56
1981:  61
1982:  61
1983:  69
1984*c:  90
1985:  59
1986:  69
1987:  57
1988:  96
1989:  63
1990:  48
1991:  75
1992:  82
1993*c:  164
1994:  99
1995:  104
1996:  81
1997:  71
1998:  71

Location
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  89
1981:  83
1982:  84
1983:  80
1984*c:  86
1985:  113
1986:  73
1987:  84
1988:  106
1989:  93
1990:  130
1991:  114
1992:  101
1993*c:  116
1994:  131
1995:  149
1996:  141
1997:  160
1998:  101

Location
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  173
1981:  174
1982:  193
1983:  206
1984*c:  234
1985:  225
1986:  192
1987:  190
1988:  177
1989:  222
1990:  198
1991:  201
1992:  202
1993*c:  225
1994:  213
1995:  183
1996:  186
1997:  184
1998:  177

Location
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  57
1981:  58
1982:  68
1983:  84
1984*c:  81
1985:  86
1986:  84
1987:  98
1988:  89
1989:  79
1990:  70
1991:  106
1992:  83
1993*c:  97
1994:  74
1995:  53
1996:  80
1997:  74
1998:  67

Location
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  60
1981:  44
1982:  56
1983:  60
1984*c:  63
1985:  50
1986:  59
1987:  63
1988:  61
1989:  61
1990:  74
1991:  81
1992:  53
1993*c:  53
1994:  49
1995:  59
1996:  61
1997:  57
1998:  64

Location
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  86
1981:  108
1982:  101
1983:  100
1984*c:  87
1985:  94
1986:  93
1987:  96
1988:  111
1989:  106
1990:  100
1991:  95
1992:  105
1993*c:  98
1994:  126
1995:  68
1996:  72
1997:  113
1998:  118

Location
Montana
Income Year
1980:  12
1981:  8
1982:  18
1983:  19
1984*c:  16
1985:  21
1986:  21
1987:  23
1988:  20
1989:  22
1990:  18
1991:  17
1992:  16
1993*c:  17
1994:  16
1995:  23
1996:  28
1997:  28
1998:  28

Location
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  17
1981:  22
1982:  24
1983:  23
1984*c:  25
1985:  10
1986:  19
1987:  24
1988:  23
1989:  16
1990:  26
1991:  26
1992:  19
1993*c:  16
1994:  26
1995:  24
1996:  29
1997:  28
1998:  18

Location
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  17
1981:  13
1982:  13
1983:  10
1984*c:  14
1985:  17
1986:  17
1987:  22
1988:  20
1989:  14
1990:  13
1991:  21
1992:  23
1993*c:  36
1994:  22
1995:  29
1996:  22
1997:  24
1998:  31

Location
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  9
1981:  22
1982:  17
1983:  16
1984*c:  16
1985:  12
1986:  19
1987:  14
1988:  21
1989:  17
1990:  20
1991:  25
1992:  25
1993*c:  29
1994:  28
1995:  29
1996:  30
1997:  19
1998:  20

Location
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  87
1981:  113
1982:  100
1983:  98
1984*c:  121
1985:  109
1986:  126
1987:  98
1988:  88
1989:  84
1990:  86
1991:  80
1992:  102
1993*c:  126
1994:  117
1995:  102
1996:  142
1997:  99
1998:  117

Location
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  31
1981:  38
1982:  29
1983:  33
1984*c:  30
1985:  23
1986:  30
1987:  33
1988:  31
1989:  34
1990:  33
1991:  29
1992:  43
1993*c:  49
1994:  42
1995:  41
1996:  50
1997:  46
1998:  34

Location
New York
Income Year
1980:  231
1981:  271
1982:  248
1983:  295
1984*c:  309
1985:  325
1986:  236
1987:  276
1988:  309
1989:  276
1990:  308
1991:  294
1992:  344
1993*c:  373
1994:  348
1995:  327
1996:  371
1997:  311
1998:  375

Location
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  126
1981:  156
1982:  122
1983:  130
1984*c:  132
1985:  152
1986:  126
1987:  121
1988:  112
1989:  122
1990:  130
1991:  139
1992:  128
1993*c:  142
1994:  129
1995:  157
1996:  129
1997:  171
1998:  164

Location
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  9
1981:  10
1982:  10
1983:  9
1984*c:  8
1985:  9
1986:  11
1987:  12
1988:  10
1989:  13
1990:  12
1991:  11
1992:  8
1993*c:  9
1994:  9
1995:  8
1996:  9
1997:  10
1998:  7

Location
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  221
1981:  201
1982:  200
1983:  215
1984*c:  217
1985:  181
1986:  211
1987:  211
1988:  227
1989:  217
1990:  220
1991:  229
1992:  217
1993*c:  218
1994:  208
1995:  259
1996:  245
1997:  216
1998:  239

Location
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  55
1981:  59
1982:  55
1983:  59
1984*c:  40
1985:  55
1986:  69
1987:  47
1988:  78
1989:  73
1990:  81
1991:  90
1992:  69
1993*c:  94
1994:  81
1995:  73
1996:  69
1997:  77
1998:  81

Location
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  63
1981:  59
1982:  62
1983:  55
1984*c:  47
1985:  66
1986:  75
1987:  80
1988:  68
1989:  49
1990:  61
1991:  70
1992:  56
1993*c:  60
1994:  60
1995:  60
1996:  58
1997:  47
1998:  57

Location
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  256
1981:  205
1982:  200
1983:  227
1984*c:  268
1985:  265
1986:  281
1987:  193
1988:  219
1989:  178
1990:  191
1991:  255
1992:  283
1993*c:  210
1994:  257
1995:  258
1996:  296
1997:  275
1998:  231

Location
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  20
1981:  16
1982:  19
1983:  19
1984*c:  15
1985:  17
1986:  16
1987:  17
1988:  19
1989:  16
1990:  19
1991:  21
1992:  23
1993*c:  17
1994:  27
1995:  22
1996:  20
1997:  23
1998:  22

Location
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  65
1981:  39
1982:  60
1983:  66
1984*c:  67
1985:  63
1986:  73
1987:  55
1988:  49
1989:  95
1990:  83
1991:  94
1992:  89
1993*c:  83
1994:  125
1995:  92
1996:  50
1997:  54
1998:  81

Location
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  7
1981:  12
1982:  11
1983:  9
1984*c:  11
1985:  12
1986:  9
1987:  8
1988:  10
1989:  11
1990:  11
1991:  13
1992:  18
1993*c:  12
1994:  10
1995:  12
1996:  12
1997:  11
1998:  11

Location
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  79
1981:  101
1982:  112
1983:  103
1984*c:  116
1985:  133
1986:  119
1987:  105
1988:  113
1989:  115
1990:  111
1991:  131
1992:  165
1993*c:  162
1994:  176
1995:  144
1996:  171
1997:  129
1998:  103

Location
Texas
Income Year
1980:  260
1981:  216
1982:  206
1983:  272
1984*c:  279
1985:  262
1986:  318
1987:  304
1988:  270
1989:  360
1990:  270
1991:  309
1992:  308
1993*c:  302
1994:  342
1995:  336
1996:  245
1997:  360
1998:  344

Location
Utah
Income Year
1980:  19
1981:  23
1982:  18
1983:  14
1984*c:  18
1985:  21
1986:  16
1987:  13
1988:  18
1989:  19
1990:  20
1991:  18
1992:  23
1993*c:  34
1994:  27
1995:  25
1996:  26
1997:  32
1998:  26

Location
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  14
1981:  11
1982:  7
1983:  10
1984*c:  9
1985:  9
1986:  9
1987:  11
1988:  9
1989:  8
1990:  12
1991:  13
1992:  15
1993*c:  12
1994:  12
1995:  13
1996:  15
1997:  14
1998:  10

Location
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  108
1981:  81
1982:  98
1983:  82
1984*c:  126
1985:  117
1986:  111
1987:  130
1988:  117
1989:  109
1990:  109
1991:  100
1992:  104
1993*c:  125
1994:  141
1995:  151
1996:  135
1997:  128
1998:  90

Location
Washington
Income Year
1980:  104
1981:  86
1982:  82
1983:  76
1984*c:  75
1985:  115
1986:  102
1987:  69
1988:  83
1989:  106
1990:  134
1991:  115
1992:  100
1993*c:  101
1994:  106
1995:  118
1996:  125
1997:  97
1998:  108

Location
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  57
1981:  67
1982:  59
1983:  68
1984*c:  56
1985:  55
1986:  56
1987:  51
1988:  51
1989:  55
1990:  49
1991:  55
1992:  67
1993*c:  63
1994:  78
1995:  57
1996:  79
1997:  61
1998:  52

Location
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  87
1981:  79
1982:  81
1983:  67
1984*c:  83
1985:  54
1986:  62
1987:  66
1988:  79
1989:  81
1990:  80
1991:  82
1992:  110
1993*c:  109
1994:  74
1995:  67
1996:  103
1997:  120
1998:  133

Location
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  6
1981:  7
1982:  8
1983:  7
1984*c:  8
1985:  10
1986:  8
1987:  8
1988:  11
1989:  11
1990:  9
1991:  11
1992:  9
1993*c:  10
1994:  9
1995:  9
1996:  13
1997:  8
1998:  10

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 3c.  Estimated Population of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women 
without a Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State 
and the District of Columbia, Income Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Location
United States
Income Year
1980:  48,618
1981:  49,506
1982:  50,564
1983:  51,496
1984*c:  52,344
1985:  53,450
1986:  54,438
1987:  55,567
1988:  56,424
1989:  57,137
1990:  57,753
1991:  58,480
1992:  59,205
1993*c:  59,597
1994:  60,157
1995:  60,938
1996:  61,740
1997:  62,486
1998:  63,494

Location
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  806
1981:  822
1982:  833
1983:  840
1984*c:  873
1985:  902
1986:  928
1987:  874
1988:  881
1989:  923
1990:  919
1991:  929
1992:  933
1993*c:  896
1994:  918
1995:  953
1996:  988
1997:  997
1998:  1,013

Location
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  80
1981:  85
1982:  96
1983:  111
1984*c:  123
1985:  122
1986:  119
1987:  117
1988:  115
1989:  121
1990:  124
1991:  125
1992:  125
1993*c:  142
1994:  150
1995:  150
1996:  156
1997:  152
1998:  149

Location
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  583
1981:  570
1982:  574
1983:  570
1984*c:  668
1985:  674
1986:  729
1987:  810
1988:  778
1989:  787
1990:  823
1991:  842
1992:  861
1993*c:  854
1994:  907
1995:  930
1996:  1,014
1997:  1,013
1998:  1,106

Location
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  443
1981:  453
1982:  429
1983:  456
1984*c:  475
1985:  460
1986:  497
1987:  512
1988:  521
1989:  538
1990:  512
1991:  510
1992:  481
1993*c:  521
1994:  543
1995:  520
1996:  535
1997:  535
1998:  538

Location
California
Income Year
1980:  5,230
1981:  5,420
1982:  5,561
1983:  5,761
1984*c:  5,790
1985:  6,008
1986:  6,215
1987:  6,421
1988:  6,547
1989:  6,698
1990:  6,782
1991:  7,031
1992:  7,144
1993*c:  7,149
1994:  7,275
1995:  7,227
1996:  7,349
1997:  7,565
1998:  7,710

Location
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  669
1981:  658
1982:  694
1983:  748
1984*c:  727
1985:  801
1986:  774
1987:  759
1988:  774
1989:  795
1990:  755
1991:  759
1992:  751
1993*c:  828
1994:  879
1995:  901
1996:  887
1997:  940
1998:  964

Location
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  692
1981:  746
1982:  767
1983:  747
1984*c:  743
1985:  775
1986:  769
1987:  727
1988:  775
1989:  747
1990:  786
1991:  807
1992:  781
1993*c:  791
1994:  776
1995:  805
1996:  837
1997:  789
1998:  807

Location
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  121
1981:  129
1982:  134
1983:  145
1984*c:  138
1985:  143
1986:  144
1987:  146
1988:  154
1989:  161
1990:  168
1991:  173
1992:  175
1993*c:  167
1994:  169
1995:  175
1996:  179
1997:  173
1998:  182

Location
DC
Income Year
1980:  148
1981:  157
1982:  144
1983:  132
1984*c:  142
1985:  144
1986:  160
1987:  143
1988:  146
1989:  140
1990:  139
1991:  140
1992:  132
1993*c:  142
1994:  153
1995:  146
1996:  131
1997:  126
1998:  127

Location
Florida
Income Year
1980:  2,188
1981:  2,143
1982:  2,205
1983:  2,270
1984*c:  2,375
1985:  2,475
1986:  2,580
1987:  2,792
1988:  2,786
1989:  2,879
1990:  2,976
1991:  2,998
1992:  3,155
1993*c:  3,208
1994:  3,190
1995:  3,243
1996:  3,242
1997:  3,283
1998:  3,254

Location
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  1,135
1981:  1,161
1982:  1,187
1983:  1,257
1984*c:  1,291
1985:  1,363
1986:  1,425
1987:  1,385
1988:  1,472
1989:  1,438
1990:  1,571
1991:  1,563
1992:  1,568
1993*c:  1,687
1994:  1,720
1995:  1,741
1996:  1,719
1997:  1,823
1998:  1,946

Location
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  217
1981:  219
1982:  222
1983:  227
1984*c:  239
1985:  252
1986:  246
1987:  258
1988:  255
1989:  265
1990:  266
1991:  273
1992:  274
1993*c:  289
1994:  266
1995:  270
1996:  274
1997:  271
1998:  264

Location
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  178
1981:  187
1982:  195
1983:  201
1984*c:  212
1985:  195
1986:  207
1987:  201
1988:  205
1989:  217
1990:  218
1991:  225
1992:  225
1993*c:  254
1994:  251
1995:  244
1996:  266
1997:  264
1998:  262

Location
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  2,476
1981:  2,512
1982:  2,495
1983:  2,478
1984*c:  2,551
1985:  2,693
1986:  2,660
1987:  2,645
1988:  2,590
1989:  2,624
1990:  2,738
1991:  2,843
1992:  2,804
1993*c:  2,786
1994:  2,804
1995:  2,850
1996:  2,845
1997:  2,778
1998:  2,837

Location
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  1,149
1981:  1,147
1982:  1,163
1983:  1,158
1984*c:  1,160
1985:  1,189
1986:  1,256
1987:  1,258
1988:  1,316
1989:  1,269
1990:  1,291
1991:  1,344
1992:  1,350
1993*c:  1,347
1994:  1,323
1995:  1,277
1996:  1,304
1997:  1,319
1998:  1,401

Location
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  603
1981:  586
1982:  569
1983:  622
1984*c:  630
1985:  604
1986:  614
1987:  634
1988:  641
1989:  640
1990:  611
1991:  631
1992:  655
1993*c:  612
1994:  606
1995:  657
1996:  676
1997:  650
1998:  621

Location
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  461
1981:  465
1982:  488
1983:  506
1984*c:  518
1985:  508
1986:  508
1987:  562
1988:  566
1989:  559
1990:  568
1991:  598
1992:  578
1993*c:  562
1994:  526
1995:  529
1996:  536
1997:  535
1998:  572

Location
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  748
1981:  780
1982:  814
1983:  867
1984*c:  823
1985:  779
1986:  812
1987:  862
1988:  785
1989:  848
1990:  823
1991:  817
1992:  851
1993*c:  843
1994:  835
1995:  864
1996:  907
1997:  908
1998:  906

Location
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  880
1981:  855
1982:  901
1983:  952
1984*c:  879
1985:  905
1986:  922
1987:  968
1988:  1,002
1989:  959
1990:  968
1991:  923
1992:  1,005
1993*c:  965
1994:  971
1995:  972
1996:  958
1997:  1,025
1998:  1,002

Location
Maine
Income Year
1980:  231
1981:  248
1982:  254
1983:  271
1984*c:  272
1985:  243
1986:  249
1987:  260
1988:  275
1989:  297
1990:  304
1991:  295
1992:  294
1993*c:  282
1994:  276
1995:  298
1996:  284
1997:  305
1998:  312

Location
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  951
1981:  1,031
1982:  992
1983:  990
1984*c:  1,040
1985:  1,090
1986:  1,112
1987:  1,136
1988:  1,117
1989:  1,164
1990:  1,176
1991:  1,241
1992:  1,254
1993*c:  1,176
1994:  1,226
1995:  1,246
1996:  1,268
1997:  1,321
1998:  1,295

Location
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  1,255
1981:  1,283
1982:  1,274
1983:  1,293
1984*c:  1,335
1985:  1,383
1986:  1,404
1987:  1,425
1988:  1,417
1989:  1,409
1990:  1,423
1991:  1,392
1992:  1,425
1993*c:  1,449
1994:  1,458
1995:  1,489
1996:  1,499
1997:  1,451
1998:  1,499

Location
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  1,919
1981:  1,960
1982:  2,007
1983:  1,934
1984*c:  1,988
1985:  1,975
1986:  1,992
1987:  2,009
1988:  2,044
1989:  2,090
1990:  2,089
1991:  2,099
1992:  2,117
1993*c:  2,147
1994:  2,165
1995:  2,204
1996:  2,171
1997:  2,158
1998:  2,177

Location
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  798
1981:  856
1982:  880
1983:  927
1984*c:  910
1985:  925
1986:  923
1987:  974
1988:  1,010
1989:  979
1990:  1,049
1991:  1,006
1992:  1,034
1993*c:  1,023
1994:  1,043
1995:  1,087
1996:  1,129
1997:  1,157
1998:  1,124

Location
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  485
1981:  481
1982:  502
1983:  504
1984*c:  486
1985:  509
1986:  522
1987:  520
1988:  517
1989:  560
1990:  535
1991:  536
1992:  554
1993*c:  570
1994:  577
1995:  649
1996:  637
1997:  618
1998:  625

Location
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  1,033
1981:  1,026
1982:  1,066
1983:  1,090
1984*c:  1,115
1985:  1,091
1986:  1,093
1987:  1,119
1988:  1,180
1989:  1,197
1990:  1,212
1991:  1,218
1992:  1,183
1993*c:  1,198
1994:  1,082
1995:  1,233
1996:  1,168
1997:  1,212
1998:  1,267

Location
Montana
Income Year
1980:  165
1981:  171
1982:  164
1983:  162
1984*c:  183
1985:  183
1986:  185
1987:  180
1988:  180
1989:  188
1990:  186
1991:  189
1992:  182
1993*c:  187
1994:  183
1995:  181
1996:  198
1997:  200
1998:  202

Location
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  313
1981:  334
1982:  327
1983:  324
1984*c:  357
1985:  345
1986:  355
1987:  359
1988:  352
1989:  379
1990:  373
1991:  378
1992:  387
1993*c:  365
1994:  385
1995:  356
1996:  363
1997:  362
1998:  362

Location
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  191
1981:  210
1982:  206
1983:  203
1984*c:  217
1985:  242
1986:  258
1987:  243
1988:  274
1989:  286
1990:  279
1991:  285
1992:  301
1993*c:  326
1994:  350
1995:  353
1996:  392
1997:  424
1998:  438

Location
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  205
1981:  208
1982:  213
1983:  223
1984*c:  226
1985:  237
1986:  236
1987:  252
1988:  274
1989:  267
1990:  274
1991:  295
1992:  279
1993*c:  258
1994:  267
1995:  273
1996:  273
1997:  270
1998:  282

Location
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  1,683
1981:  1,605
1982:  1,653
1983:  1,783
1984*c:  1,772
1985:  1,779
1986:  1,844
1987:  1,838
1988:  1,860
1989:  1,895
1990:  1,907
1991:  1,875
1992:  1,873
1993*c:  1,929
1994:  1,919
1995:  1,909
1996:  1,916
1997:  2,002
1998:  2,046

Location
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  284
1981:  268
1982:  297
1983:  289
1984*c:  310
1985:  308
1986:  313
1987:  327
1988:  334
1989:  348
1990:  343
1991:  349
1992:  351
1993*c:  353
1994:  376
1995:  383
1996:  388
1997:  412
1998:  392

Location
New York
Income Year
1980:  3,826
1981:  3,836
1982:  4,015
1983:  4,056
1984*c:  4,133
1985:  4,212
1986:  4,235
1987:  4,230
1988:  4,223
1989:  4,236
1990:  4,260
1991:  4,369
1992:  4,354
1993*c:  4,430
1994:  4,348
1995:  4,369
1996:  4,361
1997:  4,174
1998:  4,317

Location
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  1,320
1981:  1,349
1982:  1,352
1983:  1,349
1984*c:  1,357
1985:  1,417
1986:  1,474
1987:  1,458
1988:  1,515
1989:  1,463
1990:  1,518
1991:  1,581
1992:  1,607
1993*c:  1,602
1994:  1,636
1995:  1,672
1996:  1,699
1997:  1,740
1998:  1,762

Location
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  127
1981:  126
1982:  137
1983:  141
1984*c:  138
1985:  145
1986:  137
1987:  137
1988:  141
1989:  138
1990:  142
1991:  141
1992:  137
1993*c:  130
1994:  138
1995:  139
1996:  134
1997:  134
1998:  139

Location
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  2,286
1981:  2,334
1982:  2,459
1983:  2,372
1984*c:  2,390
1985:  2,412
1986:  2,493
1987:  2,496
1988:  2,508
1989:  2,474
1990:  2,553
1991:  2,557
1992:  2,580
1993*c:  2,526
1994:  2,553
1995:  2,528
1996:  2,550
1997:  2,657
1998:  2,609

Location
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  593
1981:  625
1982:  630
1983:  675
1984*c:  700
1985:  728
1986:  716
1987:  731
1988:  719
1989:  726
1990:  724
1991:  702
1992:  726
1993*c:  739
1994:  757
1995:  726
1996:  746
1997:  721
1998:  735

Location
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  579
1981:  608
1982:  608
1983:  595
1984*c:  624
1985:  633
1986:  634
1987:  563
1988:  617
1989:  675
1990:  628
1991:  693
1992:  709
1993*c:  715
1994:  713
1995:  722
1996:  712
1997:  787
1998:  832

Location
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  2,517
1981:  2,527
1982:  2,622
1983:  2,608
1984*c:  2,615
1985:  2,607
1986:  2,659
1987:  2,695
1988:  2,894
1989:  2,830
1990:  2,797
1991:  2,752
1992:  2,741
1993*c:  2,681
1994:  2,699
1995:  2,782
1996:  2,822
1997:  2,813
1998:  2,817

Location
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  203
1981:  210
1982:  194
1983:  208
1984*c:  210
1985:  219
1986:  224
1987:  232
1988:  223
1989:  220
1990:  217
1991:  233
1992:  220
1993*c:  229
1994:  221
1995:  194
1996:  226
1997:  223
1998:  222

Location
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  647
1981:  707
1982:  737
1983:  755
1984*c:  756
1985:  728
1986:  710
1987:  813
1988:  797
1989:  822
1990:  810
1991:  830
1992:  843
1993*c:  850
1994:  843
1995:  866
1996:  867
1997:  875
1998:  931

Location
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  134
1981:  140
1982:  134
1983:  133
1984*c:  143
1985:  137
1986:  147
1987:  152
1988:  154
1989:  147
1990:  144
1991:  140
1992:  144
1993*c:  149
1994:  150
1995:  149
1996:  151
1997:  137
1998:  147

Location
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  1,011
1981:  979
1982:  934
1983:  954
1984*c:  1,007
1985:  1,010
1986:  988
1987:  1,097
1988:  1,094
1989:  1,107
1990:  1,109
1991:  1,128
1992:  1,158
1993*c:  1,218
1994:  1,289
1995:  1,280
1996:  1,244
1997:  1,274
1998:  1,347

Location
Texas
Income Year
1980:  3,073
1981:  3,156
1982:  3,273
1983:  3,412
1984*c:  3,480
1985:  3,602
1986:  3,628
1987:  3,686
1988:  3,715
1989:  3,968
1990:  3,904
1991:  3,902
1992:  4,025
1993*c:  4,084
1994:  4,254
1995:  4,321
1996:  4,556
1997:  4,597
1998:  4,686

Location
Utah
Income Year
1980:  280
1981:  283
1982:  283
1983:  292
1984*c:  303
1985:  313
1986:  327
1987:  331
1988:  338
1989:  326
1990:  335
1991:  342
1992:  354
1993*c:  384
1994:  356
1995:  380
1996:  413
1997:  430
1998:  428

Location
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  113
1981:  116
1982:  106
1983:  109
1984*c:  116
1985:  124
1986:  123
1987:  126
1988:  131
1989:  138
1990:  140
1991:  136
1992:  142
1993*c:  138
1994:  147
1995:  149
1996:  137
1997:  135
1998:  147

Location
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  1,214
1981:  1,258
1982:  1,254
1983:  1,290
1984*c:  1,329
1985:  1,314
1986:  1,345
1987:  1,423
1988:  1,482
1989:  1,490
1990:  1,500
1991:  1,475
1992:  1,568
1993*c:  1,584
1994:  1,620
1995:  1,557
1996:  1,571
1997:  1,585
1998:  1,567

Location
Washington
Income Year
1980:  879
1981:  936
1982:  992
1983:  965
1984*c:  977
1985:  1,004
1986:  959
1987:  1,051
1988:  1,131
1989:  1,151
1990:  1,174
1991:  1,184
1992:  1,222
1993*c:  1,186
1994:  1,151
1995:  1,222
1996:  1,304
1997:  1,453
1998:  1,436

Location
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  397
1981:  417
1982:  406
1983:  410
1984*c:  431
1985:  421
1986:  428
1987:  437
1988:  411
1989:  396
1990:  407
1991:  401
1992:  371
1993*c:  390
1994:  406
1995:  405
1996:  381
1997:  390
1998:  387

Location
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  1,002
1981:  1,021
1982:  1,014
1983:  1,021
1984*c:  965
1985:  1,017
1986:  1,053
1987:  1,094
1988:  1,086
1989:  1,060
1990:  1,097
1991:  1,125
1992:  1,116
1993*c:  1,150
1994:  1,194
1995:  1,248
1996:  1,265
1997:  1,211
1998:  1,191

Location
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  96
1981:  104
1982:  107
1983:  111
1984*c:  104
1985:  103
1986:  104
1987:  99
1988:  101
1989:  105
1990:  108
1991:  100
1992:  103
1993*c:  108
1994:  117
1995:  110
1996:  114
1997:  111
1998:  111

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 3d.  Estimated Population of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women 
with a Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State 
and the District of Columbia, Income Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Location
United States
Income Year
1980:  4,024
1981:  4,097
1982:  3,910
1983:  4,000
1984*c:  4,217
1985:  4,174
1986:  4,216
1987:  4,009
1988:  4,146
1989:  4,284
1990:  4,495
1991:  4,557
1992:  4,590
1993*c:  5,151
1994:  5,348
1995:  5,568
1996:  5,625
1997:  5,657
1998:  5,423

Location
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  88
1981:  72
1982:  60
1983:  65
1984*c:  84
1985:  106
1986:  87
1987:  82
1988:  72
1989:  88
1990:  108
1991:  90
1992:  73
1993*c:  122
1994:  100
1995:  96
1996:  102
1997:  134
1998:  124

Location
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  6
1981:  5
1982:  5
1983:  5
1984*c:  5
1985:  6
1986:  9
1987:  7
1988:  4
1989:  6
1990:  6
1991:  9
1992:  7
1993*c:  11
1994:  8
1995:  8
1996:  10
1997:  14
1998:  12

Location
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  48
1981:  45
1982:  51
1983:  70
1984*c:  59
1985:  67
1986:  72
1987:  40
1988:  48
1989:  51
1990:  47
1991:  60
1992:  63
1993*c:  83
1994:  71
1995:  79
1996:  111
1997:  95
1998:  68

Location
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  66
1981:  59
1982:  62
1983:  59
1984*c:  52
1985:  54
1986:  56
1987:  59
1988:  61
1989:  47
1990:  46
1991:  58
1992:  66
1993*c:  60
1994:  60
1995:  77
1996:  65
1997:  67
1998:  67

Location
California
Income Year
1980:  421
1981:  490
1982:  477
1983:  442
1984*c:  476
1985:  487
1986:  508
1987:  470
1988:  476
1989:  481
1990:  521
1991:  488
1992:  595
1993*c:  567
1994:  615
1995:  590
1996:  605
1997:  636
1998:  594

Location
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  36
1981:  40
1982:  42
1983:  34
1984*c:  58
1985:  36
1986:  60
1987:  68
1988:  56
1989:  53
1990:  51
1991:  81
1992:  55
1993*c:  50
1994:  60
1995:  88
1996:  65
1997:  78
1998:  88

Location
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  46
1981:  36
1982:  48
1983:  45
1984*c:  51
1985:  48
1986:  38
1987:  47
1988:  62
1989:  30
1990:  43
1991:  48
1992:  61
1993*c:  70
1994:  34
1995:  38
1996:  47
1997:  49
1998:  71

Location
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  12
1981:  14
1982:  10
1983:  5
1984*c:  10
1985:  11
1986:  10
1987:  9
1988:  11
1989:  11
1990:  8
1991:  9
1992:  11
1993*c:  9
1994:  12
1995:  16
1996:  14
1997:  12
1998:  12

Location
DC
Income Year
1980:  13
1981:  14
1982:  16
1983:  15
1984*c:  13
1985:  12
1986:  13
1987:  15
1988:  12
1989:  12
1990:  9
1991:  11
1992:  10
1993*c:  12
1994:  15
1995:  13
1996:  17
1997:  9
1998:  10

Location
Florida
Income Year
1980:  181
1981:  208
1982:  225
1983:  238
1984*c:  211
1985:  215
1986:  198
1987:  198
1988:  189
1989:  187
1990:  196
1991:  244
1992:  221
1993*c:  228
1994:  300
1995:  327
1996:  304
1997:  279
1998:  246

Location
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  128
1981:  97
1982:  103
1983:  113
1984*c:  138
1985:  124
1986:  146
1987:  156
1988:  162
1989:  153
1990:  128
1991:  158
1992:  146
1993*c:  155
1994:  185
1995:  194
1996:  150
1997:  143
1998:  170

Location
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  17
1981:  12
1982:  14
1983:  16
1984*c:  13
1985:  14
1986:  15
1987:  10
1988:  9
1989:  16
1990:  14
1991:  14
1992:  19
1993*c:  15
1994:  15
1995:  12
1996:  15
1997:  17
1998:  11

Location
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  16
1981:  19
1982:  16
1983:  17
1984*c:  15
1985:  19
1986:  15
1987:  16
1988:  22
1989:  17
1990:  19
1991:  20
1992:  16
1993*c:  13
1994:  21
1995:  24
1996:  24
1997:  25
1998:  20

Location
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  167
1981:  171
1982:  165
1983:  166
1984*c:  201
1985:  168
1986:  163
1987:  159
1988:  176
1989:  191
1990:  198
1991:  141
1992:  214
1993*c:  233
1994:  241
1995:  233
1996:  222
1997:  251
1998:  196

Location
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  89
1981:  94
1982:  82
1983:  95
1984*c:  105
1985:  105
1986:  110
1987:  80
1988:  83
1989:  74
1990:  75
1991:  92
1992:  100
1993*c:  110
1994:  161
1995:  120
1996:  104
1997:  131
1998:  92

Location
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  60
1981:  46
1982:  30
1983:  23
1984*c:  39
1985:  43
1986:  50
1987:  37
1988:  32
1989:  47
1990:  42
1991:  35
1992:  43
1993*c:  35
1994:  34
1995:  47
1996:  51
1997:  51
1998:  35

Location
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  44
1981:  29
1982:  30
1983:  29
1984*c:  23
1985:  33
1986:  23
1987:  31
1988:  27
1989:  43
1990:  37
1991:  28
1992:  28
1993*c:  46
1994:  39
1995:  32
1996:  39
1997:  57
1998:  50

Location
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  57
1981:  79
1982:  79
1983:  47
1984*c:  55
1985:  73
1986:  85
1987:  89
1988:  82
1989:  72
1990:  124
1991:  107
1992:  85
1993*c:  89
1994:  148
1995:  140
1996:  111
1997:  128
1998:  115

Location
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  71
1981:  110
1982:  77
1983:  75
1984*c:  95
1985:  103
1986:  104
1987:  103
1988:  98
1989:  96
1990:  81
1991:  94
1992:  106
1993*c:  126
1994:  81
1995:  105
1996:  92
1997:  75
1998:  98

Location
Maine
Income Year
1980:  19
1981:  14
1982:  19
1983:  22
1984*c:  20
1985:  28
1986:  26
1987:  31
1988:  27
1989:  21
1990:  18
1991:  21
1992:  29
1993*c:  31
1994:  41
1995:  29
1996:  29
1997:  36
1998:  31

Location
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  68
1981:  66
1982:  71
1983:  57
1984*c:  70
1985:  73
1986:  61
1987:  57
1988:  76
1989:  77
1990:  97
1991:  81
1992:  55
1993*c:  78
1994:  75
1995:  71
1996:  81
1997:  73
1998:  89

Location
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  88
1981:  97
1982:  60
1983:  87
1984*c:  86
1985:  88
1986:  78
1987:  91
1988:  84
1989:  117
1990:  115
1991:  106
1992:  106
1993*c:  99
1994:  118
1995:  147
1996:  128
1997:  122
1998:  113

Location
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  170
1981:  192
1982:  167
1983:  223
1984*c:  216
1985:  197
1986:  217
1987:  173
1988:  211
1989:  209
1990:  206
1991:  204
1992:  200
1993*c:  210
1994:  205
1995:  223
1996:  238
1997:  230
1998:  205

Location
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  60
1981:  52
1982:  59
1983:  56
1984*c:  66
1985:  63
1986:  76
1987:  64
1988:  36
1989:  58
1990:  79
1991:  81
1992:  79
1993*c:  90
1994:  67
1995:  64
1996:  81
1997:  74
1998:  69

Location
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  65
1981:  61
1982:  53
1983:  57
1984*c:  61
1985:  52
1986:  54
1987:  52
1988:  64
1989:  63
1990:  73
1991:  61
1992:  62
1993*c:  62
1994:  66
1995:  71
1996:  75
1997:  77
1998:  53

Location
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  84
1981:  70
1982:  65
1983:  76
1984*c:  96
1985:  89
1986:  89
1987:  86
1988:  84
1989:  75
1990:  113
1991:  87
1992:  108
1993*c:  99
1994:  126
1995:  99
1996:  152
1997:  113
1998:  98

Location
Montana
Income Year
1980:  12
1981:  11
1982:  14
1983:  17
1984*c:  13
1985:  18
1986:  13
1987:  16
1988:  16
1989:  12
1990:  15
1991:  19
1992:  15
1993*c:  18
1994:  17
1995:  16
1996:  15
1997:  15
1998:  17

Location
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  27
1981:  20
1982:  16
1983:  19
1984*c:  17
1985:  17
1986:  20
1987:  17
1988:  15
1989:  20
1990:  23
1991:  18
1992:  19
1993*c:  25
1994:  15
1995:  27
1996:  26
1997:  29
1998:  31

Location
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  14
1981:  9
1982:  13
1983:  14
1984*c:  15
1985:  16
1986:  11
1987:  22
1988:  18
1989:  14
1990:  22
1991:  27
1992:  20
1993*c:  27
1994:  34
1995:  27
1996:  29
1997:  31
1998:  28

Location
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  12
1981:  17
1982:  17
1983:  17
1984*c:  13
1985:  13
1986:  17
1987:  12
1988:  16
1989:  16
1990:  17
1991:  17
1992:  21
1993*c:  19
1994:  13
1995:  16
1996:  33
1997:  28
1998:  28

Location
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  110
1981:  141
1982:  129
1983:  92
1984*c:  103
1985:  113
1986:  114
1987:  105
1988:  82
1989:  91
1990:  80
1991:  100
1992:  102
1993*c:  121
1994:  130
1995:  126
1996:  135
1997:  139
1998:  117

Location
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  19
1981:  30
1982:  22
1983:  20
1984*c:  22
1985:  21
1986:  30
1987:  20
1988:  24
1989:  28
1990:  30
1991:  28
1992:  33
1993*c:  40
1994:  30
1995:  41
1996:  36
1997:  29
1998:  34

Location
New York
Income Year
1980:  299
1981:  324
1982:  262
1983:  296
1984*c:  347
1985:  278
1986:  292
1987:  260
1988:  286
1989:  295
1990:  326
1991:  296
1992:  312
1993*c:  361
1994:  374
1995:  404
1996:  384
1997:  414
1998:  455

Location
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  121
1981:  134
1982:  135
1983:  97
1984*c:  114
1985:  108
1986:  98
1987:  108
1988:  125
1989:  132
1990:  112
1991:  119
1992:  137
1993*c:  170
1994:  193
1995:  165
1996:  155
1997:  165
1998:  164

Location
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  9
1981:  8
1982:  4
1983:  9
1984*c:  10
1985:  9
1986:  6
1987:  8
1988:  9
1989:  10
1990:  10
1991:  8
1992:  6
1993*c:  7
1994:  7
1995:  6
1996:  9
1997:  9
1998:  12

Location
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  209
1981:  215
1982:  193
1983:  226
1984*c:  209
1985:  192
1986:  162
1987:  151
1988:  170
1989:  184
1990:  195
1991:  204
1992:  185
1993*c:  241
1994:  226
1995:  258
1996:  226
1997:  226
1998:  287

Location
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  50
1981:  53
1982:  56
1983:  50
1984*c:  56
1985:  64
1986:  43
1987:  36
1988:  66
1989:  60
1990:  55
1991:  62
1992:  47
1993*c:  71
1994:  65
1995:  71
1996:  72
1997:  92
1998:  90

Location
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  64
1981:  58
1982:  42
1983:  61
1984*c:  58
1985:  41
1986:  36
1987:  46
1988:  67
1989:  55
1990:  66
1991:  80
1992:  77
1993*c:  49
1994:  60
1995:  85
1996:  87
1997:  89
1998:  74

Location
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  259
1981:  235
1982:  175
1983:  246
1984*c:  214
1985:  193
1986:  202
1987:  217
1988:  209
1989:  212
1990:  227
1991:  240
1992:  221
1993*c:  249
1994:  278
1995:  283
1996:  275
1997:  235
1998:  270

Location
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  24
1981:  21
1982:  20
1983:  23
1984*c:  22
1985:  23
1986:  17
1987:  21
1988:  19
1989:  12
1990:  16
1991:  18
1992:  19
1993*c:  20
1994:  11
1995:  28
1996:  22
1997:  20
1998:  16

Location
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  52
1981:  64
1982:  53
1983:  51
1984*c:  68
1985:  73
1986:  70
1987:  64
1988:  68
1989:  75
1990:  71
1991:  85
1992:  80
1993*c:  78
1994:  79
1995:  85
1996:  96
1997:  107
1998:  109

Location
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  7
1981:  6
1982:  12
1983:  7
1984*c:  7
1985:  12
1986:  8
1987:  10
1988:  9
1989:  11
1990:  13
1991:  9
1992:  13
1993*c:  14
1994:  13
1995:  12
1996:  12
1997:  12
1998:  12

Location
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  80
1981:  79
1982:  133
1983:  114
1984*c:  109
1985:  148
1986:  148
1987:  116
1988:  135
1989:  126
1990:  98
1991:  119
1992:  167
1993*c:  197
1994:  134
1995:  144
1996:  216
1997:  193
1998:  138

Location
Texas
Income Year
1980:  213
1981:  182
1982:  210
1983:  231
1984*c:  199
1985:  221
1986:  259
1987:  247
1988:  268
1989:  256
1990:  287
1991:  307
1992:  249
1993*c:  359
1994:  297
1995:  337
1996:  347
1997:  373
1998:  353

Location
Utah
Income Year
1980:  16
1981:  13
1982:  23
1983:  20
1984*c:  22
1985:  20
1986:  17
1987:  15
1988:  19
1989:  27
1990:  13
1991:  19
1992:  13
1993*c:  24
1994:  26
1995:  30
1996:  22
1997:  28
1998:  27

Location
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  9
1981:  8
1982:  10
1983:  8
1984*c:  8
1985:  9
1986:  11
1987:  8
1988:  9
1989:  9
1990:  11
1991:  16
1992:  15
1993*c:  16
1994:  13
1995:  9
1996:  11
1997:  14
1998:  13

Location
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  88
1981:  87
1982:  93
1983:  55
1984*c:  70
1985:  86
1986:  84
1987:  86
1988:  84
1989:  114
1990:  117
1991:  135
1992:  100
1993*c:  67
1994:  119
1995:  148
1996:  170
1997:  154
1998:  140

Location
Washington
Income Year
1980:  110
1981:  72
1982:  79
1983:  65
1984*c:  84
1985:  92
1986:  96
1987:  88
1988:  50
1989:  86
1990:  121
1991:  92
1992:  52
1993*c:  108
1994:  156
1995:  127
1996:  135
1997:  105
1998:  140

Location
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  43
1981:  40
1982:  53
1983:  43
1984*c:  44
1985:  26
1986:  30
1987:  45
1988:  45
1989:  46
1990:  37
1991:  39
1992:  47
1993*c:  62
1994:  57
1995:  65
1996:  71
1997:  56
1998:  50

Location
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  52
1981:  74
1982:  55
1983:  76
1984*c:  67
1985:  58
1986:  60
1987:  54
1988:  66
1989:  90
1990:  72
1991:  64
1992:  78
1993*c:  97
1994:  94
1995:  103
1996:  104
1997:  108
1998:  74

Location
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  6
1981:  6
1982:  7
1983:  7
1984*c:  6
1985:  9
1986:  10
1987:  10
1988:  7
1989:  7
1990:  5
1991:  8
1992:  7
1993*c:  7
1994:  8
1995:  11
1996:  8
1997:  9
1998:  9

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.



Appendix Table 4a.  Sample Size of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men without a 
Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State and the 
District of Columbia, Income Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Location
United States
Income Year
1980:  35,584
1981:  32,186
1982:  32,731
1983:  32,503
1984*c:  32,771
1985:  32,389
1986:  32,156
1987:  32,726
1988:  30,512
1989:  33,429
1990:  33,700
1991:  33,210
1992:  32,940
1993*c:  31,747
1994:  31,804
1995:  27,791
1996:  28,298
1997:  28,653
1998:  28,930

Location
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  513
1981:  467
1982:  505
1983:  495
1984*c:  401
1985:  312
1986:  383
1987:  387
1988:  368
1989:  372
1990:  395
1991:  396
1992:  380
1993*c:  341
1994:  388
1995:  320
1996:  330
1997:  356
1998:  343

Location
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  447
1981:  458
1982:  531
1983:  524
1984*c:  551
1985:  602
1986:  502
1987:  460
1988:  496
1989:  476
1990:  487
1991:  492
1992:  501
1993*c:  438
1994:  399
1995:  341
1996:  354
1997:  348
1998:  360

Location
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  541
1981:  441
1982:  413
1983:  421
1984*c:  374
1985:  346
1986:  344
1987:  374
1988:  370
1989:  374
1990:  367
1991:  355
1992:  312
1993*c:  363
1994:  426
1995:  418
1996:  447
1997:  474
1998:  505

Location
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  459
1981:  352
1982:  366
1983:  359
1984*c:  367
1985:  339
1986:  347
1987:  398
1988:  402
1989:  380
1990:  402
1991:  398
1992:  387
1993*c:  348
1994:  364
1995:  346
1996:  338
1997:  323
1998:  305

Location
California
Income Year
1980:  3,233
1981:  3,216
1982:  3,262
1983:  3,228
1984*c:  3,226
1985:  2,911
1986:  2,870
1987:  2,952
1988:  1,704
1989:  3,094
1990:  3,252
1991:  3,252
1992:  3,133
1993*c:  2,934
1994:  2,910
1995:  2,802
1996:  2,950
1997:  2,923
1998:  2,944

Location
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  609
1981:  611
1982:  634
1983:  619
1984*c:  476
1985:  393
1986:  356
1987:  366
1988:  353
1989:  358
1990:  397
1991:  428
1992:  417
1993*c:  417
1994:  444
1995:  432
1996:  465
1997:  485
1998:  498

Location
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  411
1981:  361
1982:  384
1983:  395
1984*c:  392
1985:  380
1986:  344
1987:  324
1988:  305
1989:  345
1990:  316
1991:  304
1992:  337
1993*c:  306
1994:  277
1995:  280
1996:  266
1997:  299
1998:  302

Location
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  392
1981:  294
1982:  315
1983:  311
1984*c:  324
1985:  299
1986:  308
1987:  330
1988:  323
1989:  326
1990:  315
1991:  286
1992:  294
1993*c:  280
1994:  262
1995:  278
1996:  278
1997:  269
1998:  274

Location
DC
Income Year
1980:  351
1981:  285
1982:  283
1983:  296
1984*c:  294
1985:  303
1986:  288
1987:  312
1988:  288
1989:  302
1990:  275
1991:  263
1992:  270
1993*c:  256
1994:  268
1995:  226
1996:  251
1997:  268
1998:  240

Location
Florida
Income Year
1980:  1,001
1981:  992
1982:  1,009
1983:  1,011
1984*c:  1,219
1985:  1,335
1986:  1,421
1987:  1,476
1988:  1,618
1989:  1,623
1990:  1,590
1991:  1,464
1992:  1,478
1993*c:  1,405
1994:  1,343
1995:  1,323
1996:  1,301
1997:  1,351
1998:  1,362

Location
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  571
1981:  550
1982:  596
1983:  572
1984*c:  449
1985:  358
1986:  368
1987:  380
1988:  366
1989:  360
1990:  362
1991:  324
1992:  335
1993*c:  387
1994:  700
1995:  442
1996:  485
1997:  482
1998:  436

Location
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  402
1981:  353
1982:  351
1983:  350
1984*c:  324
1985:  319
1986:  294
1987:  324
1988:  320
1989:  319
1990:  313
1991:  304
1992:  315
1993*c:  278
1994:  283
1995:  294
1996:  278
1997:  240
1998:  268

Location
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  460
1981:  364
1982:  377
1983:  388
1984*c:  406
1985:  411
1986:  390
1987:  381
1988:  401
1989:  428
1990:  452
1991:  403
1992:  403
1993*c:  444
1994:  401
1995:  396
1996:  407
1997:  435
1998:  459

Location
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  1,283
1981:  1,237
1982:  1,236
1983:  1,228
1984*c:  1,309
1985:  1,366
1986:  1,322
1987:  1,341
1988:  1,376
1989:  1,432
1990:  1,377
1991:  1,404
1992:  1,378
1993*c:  1,292
1994:  1,342
1995:  1,166
1996:  1,155
1997:  1,213
1998:  1,246

Location
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  655
1981:  626
1982:  607
1983:  596
1984*c:  550
1985:  508
1986:  454
1987:  458
1988:  390
1989:  384
1990:  363
1991:  346
1992:  385
1993*c:  370
1994:  308
1995:  352
1996:  363
1997:  399
1998:  377

Location
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  572
1981:  485
1982:  488
1983:  494
1984*c:  444
1985:  369
1986:  401
1987:  411
1988:  396
1989:  406
1990:  439
1991:  421
1992:  436
1993*c:  395
1994:  345
1995:  350
1996:  356
1997:  365
1998:  350

Location
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  478
1981:  368
1982:  377
1983:  397
1984*c:  431
1985:  381
1986:  392
1987:  386
1988:  369
1989:  405
1990:  413
1991:  404
1992:  434
1993*c:  378
1994:  366
1995:  342
1996:  324
1997:  349
1998:  340

Location
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  534
1981:  426
1982:  451
1983:  429
1984*c:  381
1985:  361
1986:  351
1987:  358
1988:  315
1989:  316
1990:  333
1991:  337
1992:  356
1993*c:  343
1994:  325
1995:  325
1996:  338
1997:  333
1998:  338

Location
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  456
1981:  454
1982:  448
1983:  426
1984*c:  382
1985:  344
1986:  320
1987:  308
1988:  309
1989:  298
1990:  287
1991:  322
1992:  283
1993*c:  262
1994:  335
1995:  324
1996:  346
1997:  356
1998:  341

Location
Maine
Income Year
1980:  461
1981:  398
1982:  397
1983:  400
1984*c:  351
1985:  308
1986:  324
1987:  315
1988:  322
1989:  337
1990:  331
1991:  332
1992:  322
1993*c:  313
1994:  259
1995:  288
1996:  290
1997:  284
1998:  304

Location
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  584
1981:  563
1982:  566
1983:  588
1984*c:  530
1985:  481
1986:  464
1987:  454
1988:  326
1989:  351
1990:  360
1991:  333
1992:  347
1993*c:  302
1994:  321
1995:  321
1996:  322
1997:  336
1998:  316

Location
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  738
1981:  730
1982:  769
1983:  790
1984*c:  1,020
1985:  1,211
1986:  1,233
1987:  1,258
1988:  1,245
1989:  1,235
1990:  1,258
1991:  1,277
1992:  1,286
1993*c:  1,273
1994:  1,284
1995:  650
1996:  651
1997:  661
1998:  679

Location
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  1,111
1981:  1,020
1982:  1,015
1983:  1,002
1984*c:  1,128
1985:  1,288
1986:  1,275
1987:  1,328
1988:  1,293
1989:  1,303
1990:  1,379
1991:  1,378
1992:  1,337
1993*c:  1,314
1994:  1,325
1995:  937
1996:  946
1997:  927
1998:  991

Location
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  561
1981:  563
1982:  590
1983:  677
1984*c:  525
1985:  401
1986:  384
1987:  377
1988:  361
1989:  329
1990:  339
1991:  341
1992:  371
1993*c:  370
1994:  387
1995:  408
1996:  423
1997:  415
1998:  391

Location
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  470
1981:  380
1982:  389
1983:  387
1984*c:  339
1985:  392
1986:  374
1987:  389
1988:  367
1989:  377
1990:  376
1991:  375
1992:  399
1993*c:  348
1994:  309
1995:  290
1996:  323
1997:  310
1998:  287

Location
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  602
1981:  585
1982:  583
1983:  550
1984*c:  528
1985:  476
1986:  447
1987:  445
1988:  368
1989:  352
1990:  364
1991:  356
1992:  355
1993*c:  345
1994:  288
1995:  332
1996:  325
1997:  304
1998:  335

Location
Montana
Income Year
1980:  534
1981:  455
1982:  453
1983:  482
1984*c:  423
1985:  419
1986:  415
1987:  407
1988:  409
1989:  438
1990:  453
1991:  402
1992:  409
1993*c:  402
1994:  403
1995:  353
1996:  359
1997:  393
1998:  395

Location
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  518
1981:  438
1982:  412
1983:  389
1984*c:  405
1985:  398
1986:  394
1987:  403
1988:  395
1989:  410
1990:  409
1991:  421
1992:  430
1993*c:  399
1994:  380
1995:  346
1996:  369
1997:  361
1998:  403

Location
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  681
1981:  421
1982:  396
1983:  384
1984*c:  335
1985:  312
1986:  317
1987:  352
1988:  375
1989:  391
1990:  422
1991:  419
1992:  394
1993*c:  390
1994:  388
1995:  358
1996:  372
1997:  387
1998:  470

Location
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  423
1981:  310
1982:  321
1983:  308
1984*c:  280
1985:  266
1986:  281
1987:  312
1988:  287
1989:  298
1990:  284
1991:  275
1992:  305
1993*c:  276
1994:  270
1995:  279
1996:  267
1997:  289
1998:  321

Location
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  952
1981:  901
1982:  875
1983:  879
1984*c:  1,150
1985:  1,384
1986:  1,355
1987:  1,338
1988:  1,344
1989:  1,423
1990:  1,486
1991:  1,523
1992:  1,493
1993*c:  1,472
1994:  1,440
1995:  906
1996:  925
1997:  908
1998:  915

Location
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  637
1981:  393
1982:  454
1983:  475
1984*c:  498
1985:  463
1986:  462
1987:  419
1988:  437
1989:  488
1990:  466
1991:  455
1992:  404
1993*c:  389
1994:  446
1995:  445
1996:  498
1997:  483
1998:  516

Location
New York
Income Year
1980:  2,014
1981:  1,967
1982:  1,957
1983:  1,891
1984*c:  2,122
1985:  2,232
1986:  2,253
1987:  2,176
1988:  1,452
1989:  2,447
1990:  2,440
1991:  2,336
1992:  2,218
1993*c:  2,141
1994:  2,112
1995:  1,837
1996:  1,850
1997:  1,835
1998:  1,769

Location
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  620
1981:  535
1982:  584
1983:  599
1984*c:  935
1985:  1,214
1986:  1,209
1987:  1,248
1988:  1,279
1989:  1,359
1990:  1,296
1991:  1,274
1992:  1,260
1993*c:  1,194
1994:  1,082
1995:  636
1996:  740
1997:  690
1998:  684

Location
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  514
1981:  410
1982:  403
1983:  404
1984*c:  458
1985:  402
1986:  405
1987:  451
1988:  435
1989:  409
1990:  405
1991:  411
1992:  385
1993*c:  409
1994:  356
1995:  333
1996:  323
1997:  331
1998:  328

Location
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  1,226
1981:  1,235
1982:  1,232
1983:  1,187
1984*c:  1,250
1985:  1,343
1986:  1,343
1987:  1,411
1988:  1,359
1989:  1,361
1990:  1,412
1991:  1,420
1992:  1,453
1993*c:  1,385
1994:  1,295
1995:  1,013
1996:  993
1997:  1,018
1998:  1,015

Location
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  515
1981:  441
1982:  445
1983:  415
1984*c:  440
1985:  416
1986:  366
1987:  372
1988:  359
1989:  378
1990:  379
1991:  397
1992:  393
1993*c:  413
1994:  390
1995:  366
1996:  379
1997:  409
1998:  398

Location
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  583
1981:  446
1982:  434
1983:  450
1984*c:  394
1985:  306
1986:  329
1987:  318
1988:  319
1989:  336
1990:  352
1991:  349
1992:  367
1993*c:  365
1994:  390
1995:  353
1996:  343
1997:  385
1998:  394

Location
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  1,323
1981:  1,299
1982:  1,286
1983:  1,226
1984*c:  1,256
1985:  1,333
1986:  1,268
1987:  1,342
1988:  1,333
1989:  1,390
1990:  1,344
1991:  1,371
1992:  1,330
1993*c:  1,334
1994:  1,363
1995:  1,147
1996:  1,134
1997:  1,144
1998:  1,155

Location
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  382
1981:  268
1982:  286
1983:  322
1984*c:  286
1985:  270
1986:  299
1987:  295
1988:  295
1989:  297
1990:  272
1991:  287
1992:  284
1993*c:  290
1994:  266
1995:  284
1996:  264
1997:  258
1998:  305

Location
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  401
1981:  348
1982:  337
1983:  314
1984*c:  355
1985:  375
1986:  401
1987:  430
1988:  448
1989:  434
1990:  424
1991:  422
1992:  399
1993*c:  365
1994:  319
1995:  280
1996:  298
1997:  303
1998:  288

Location
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  509
1981:  459
1982:  466
1983:  485
1984*c:  455
1985:  446
1986:  460
1987:  481
1988:  458
1989:  449
1990:  431
1991:  432
1992:  487
1993*c:  469
1994:  447
1995:  386
1996:  357
1997:  334
1998:  334

Location
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  471
1981:  440
1982:  452
1983:  441
1984*c:  410
1985:  344
1986:  355
1987:  384
1988:  382
1989:  371
1990:  381
1991:  371
1992:  372
1993*c:  359
1994:  310
1995:  324
1996:  325
1997:  362
1998:  369

Location
Texas
Income Year
1980:  1,778
1981:  1,828
1982:  1,767
1983:  1,804
1984*c:  1,819
1985:  1,740
1986:  1,749
1987:  1,695
1988:  1,775
1989:  1,772
1990:  1,828
1991:  1,728
1992:  1,761
1993*c:  1,720
1994:  1,672
1995:  1,591
1996:  1,639
1997:  1,638
1998:  1,668

Location
Utah
Income Year
1980:  621
1981:  463
1982:  480
1983:  461
1984*c:  378
1985:  331
1986:  369
1987:  370
1988:  355
1989:  356
1990:  374
1991:  336
1992:  353
1993*c:  377
1994:  367
1995:  382
1996:  374
1997:  374
1998:  380

Location
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  412
1981:  331
1982:  345
1983:  333
1984*c:  312
1985:  286
1986:  287
1987:  289
1988:  287
1989:  279
1990:  253
1991:  273
1992:  246
1993*c:  258
1994:  271
1995:  293
1996:  297
1997:  281
1998:  288

Location
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  576
1981:  553
1982:  622
1983:  608
1984*c:  526
1985:  445
1986:  473
1987:  483
1988:  457
1989:  486
1990:  508
1991:  492
1992:  493
1993*c:  448
1994:  706
1995:  383
1996:  422
1997:  430
1998:  427

Location
Washington
Income Year
1980:  525
1981:  461
1982:  506
1983:  503
1984*c:  434
1985:  356
1986:  342
1987:  367
1988:  402
1989:  431
1990:  399
1991:  372
1992:  348
1993*c:  353
1994:  373
1995:  382
1996:  394
1997:  425
1998:  415

Location
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  475
1981:  340
1982:  365
1983:  347
1984*c:  356
1985:  340
1986:  345
1987:  337
1988:  358
1989:  371
1990:  372
1991:  372
1992:  340
1993*c:  319
1994:  325
1995:  332
1996:  319
1997:  333
1998:  316

Location
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  522
1981:  516
1982:  534
1983:  507
1984*c:  431
1985:  467
1986:  464
1987:  463
1988:  462
1989:  464
1990:  466
1991:  472
1992:  467
1993*c:  448
1994:  416
1995:  438
1996:  422
1997:  414
1998:  414

Location
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  477
1981:  349
1982:  377
1983:  356
1984*c:  342
1985:  307
1986:  259
1987:  291
1988:  299
1989:  309
1990:  302
1991:  305
1992:  298
1993*c:  270
1994:  358
1995:  361
1996:  323
1997:  363
1998:  372

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 4b.  Sample Size of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men with a 
Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State and the 
District of Columbia, Income Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Location
United States
Income Year
1980:  3,093
1981:  2,828
1982:  2,762
1983:  2,793
1984*c:  2,781
1985:  2,789
1986:  2,743
1987:  2,653
1988:  2,491
1989:  2,745
1990:  2,734
1991:  2,828
1992:  2,893
1993*c:  2,818
1994:  2,785
1995:  2,382
1996:  2,475
1997:  2,323
1998:  2,368

Location
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  52
1981:  52
1982:  49
1983:  53
1984*c:  25
1985:  24
1986:  37
1987:  30
1988:  34
1989:  45
1990:  41
1991:  52
1992:  39
1993*c:  50
1994:  36
1995:  43
1996:  42
1997:  37
1998:  34

Location
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  34
1981:  33
1982:  41
1983:  35
1984*c:  28
1985:  30
1986:  35
1987:  27
1988:  40
1989:  25
1990:  30
1991:  31
1992:  28
1993*c:  29
1994:  33
1995:  28
1996:  30
1997:  28
1998:  24

Location
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  55
1981:  42
1982:  44
1983:  31
1984*c:  29
1985:  31
1986:  36
1987:  37
1988:  26
1989:  36
1990:  30
1991:  25
1992:  40
1993*c:  30
1994:  32
1995:  28
1996:  39
1997:  29
1998:  30

Location
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  73
1981:  58
1982:  53
1983:  41
1984*c:  49
1985:  53
1986:  59
1987:  54
1988:  44
1989:  39
1990:  46
1991:  48
1992:  44
1993*c:  51
1994:  32
1995:  53
1996:  50
1997:  49
1998:  44

Location
California
Income Year
1980:  242
1981:  292
1982:  252
1983:  244
1984*c:  254
1985:  230
1986:  222
1987:  216
1988:  128
1989:  229
1990:  234
1991:  230
1992:  253
1993*c:  236
1994:  219
1995:  206
1996:  221
1997:  184
1998:  199

Location
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  33
1981:  38
1982:  51
1983:  53
1984*c:  37
1985:  22
1986:  39
1987:  24
1988:  30
1989:  31
1990:  29
1991:  40
1992:  46
1993*c:  25
1994:  28
1995:  32
1996:  36
1997:  32
1998:  38

Location
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  25
1981:  20
1982:  19
1983:  21
1984*c:  23
1985:  22
1986:  14
1987:  20
1988:  16
1989:  13
1990:  14
1991:  17
1992:  17
1993*c:  19
1994:  16
1995:  15
1996:  17
1997:  29
1998:  28

Location
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  39
1981:  30
1982:  23
1983:  22
1984*c:  26
1985:  21
1986:  21
1987:  17
1988:  26
1989:  24
1990:  16
1991:  22
1992:  26
1993*c:  18
1994:  22
1995:  21
1996:  19
1997:  16
1998:  15

Location
DC
Income Year
1980:  44
1981:  22
1982:  24
1983:  31
1984*c:  31
1985:  25
1986:  24
1987:  19
1988:  18
1989:  24
1990:  40
1991:  20
1992:  22
1993*c:  22
1994:  21
1995:  28
1996:  23
1997:  19
1998:  22

Location
Florida
Income Year
1980:  78
1981:  95
1982:  97
1983:  95
1984*c:  117
1985:  121
1986:  120
1987:  132
1988:  145
1989:  142
1990:  134
1991:  144
1992:  126
1993*c:  157
1994:  143
1995:  112
1996:  128
1997:  115
1998:  143

Location
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  81
1981:  59
1982:  54
1983:  51
1984*c:  49
1985:  49
1986:  38
1987:  33
1988:  35
1989:  32
1990:  32
1991:  30
1992:  33
1993*c:  33
1994:  70
1995:  42
1996:  41
1997:  43
1998:  46

Location
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  36
1981:  35
1982:  31
1983:  27
1984*c:  32
1985:  31
1986:  29
1987:  18
1988:  17
1989:  22
1990:  11
1991:  24
1992:  25
1993*c:  24
1994:  21
1995:  15
1996:  20
1997:  17
1998:  16

Location
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  42
1981:  20
1982:  36
1983:  48
1984*c:  47
1985:  45
1986:  42
1987:  43
1988:  20
1989:  44
1990:  37
1991:  39
1992:  29
1993*c:  27
1994:  37
1995:  40
1996:  32
1997:  45
1998:  27

Location
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  92
1981:  83
1982:  72
1983:  83
1984*c:  83
1985:  79
1986:  93
1987:  93
1988:  84
1989:  97
1990:  96
1991:  98
1992:  107
1993*c:  101
1994:  93
1995:  70
1996:  85
1997:  70
1998:  87

Location
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  37
1981:  52
1982:  54
1983:  45
1984*c:  30
1985:  33
1986:  45
1987:  39
1988:  24
1989:  26
1990:  28
1991:  27
1992:  19
1993*c:  20
1994:  24
1995:  24
1996:  29
1997:  21
1998:  35

Location
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  31
1981:  35
1982:  29
1983:  37
1984*c:  28
1985:  30
1986:  31
1987:  28
1988:  20
1989:  28
1990:  29
1991:  31
1992:  39
1993*c:  39
1994:  33
1995:  21
1996:  22
1997:  20
1998:  22

Location
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  28
1981:  18
1982:  22
1983:  24
1984*c:  21
1985:  25
1986:  27
1987:  20
1988:  19
1989:  23
1990:  18
1991:  24
1992:  31
1993*c:  28
1994:  25
1995:  40
1996:  34
1997:  25
1998:  24

Location
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  57
1981:  57
1982:  42
1983:  52
1984*c:  40
1985:  42
1986:  43
1987:  42
1988:  44
1989:  44
1990:  54
1991:  55
1992:  64
1993*c:  62
1994:  50
1995:  53
1996:  41
1997:  38
1998:  53

Location
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  57
1981:  52
1982:  54
1983:  45
1984*c:  33
1985:  45
1986:  38
1987:  42
1988:  45
1989:  40
1990:  33
1991:  23
1992:  31
1993*c:  45
1994:  45
1995:  42
1996:  40
1997:  35
1998:  42

Location
Maine
Income Year
1980:  48
1981:  43
1982:  39
1983:  42
1984*c:  40
1985:  29
1986:  34
1987:  30
1988:  34
1989:  35
1990:  31
1991:  37
1992:  45
1993*c:  36
1994:  40
1995:  32
1996:  34
1997:  38
1998:  34

Location
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  33
1981:  36
1982:  36
1983:  40
1984*c:  48
1985:  27
1986:  26
1987:  23
1988:  27
1989:  19
1990:  14
1991:  21
1992:  23
1993*c:  35
1994:  27
1995:  23
1996:  19
1997:  19
1998:  17

Location
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  58
1981:  51
1982:  56
1983:  48
1984*c:  69
1985:  109
1986:  70
1987:  83
1988:  99
1989:  91
1990:  114
1991:  98
1992:  89
1993*c:  100
1994:  119
1995:  68
1996:  62
1997:  74
1998:  48

Location
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  95
1981:  93
1982:  107
1983:  106
1984*c:  146
1985:  148
1986:  122
1987:  123
1988:  113
1989:  141
1990:  126
1991:  131
1992:  128
1993*c:  127
1994:  135
1995:  74
1996:  78
1997:  72
1998:  71

Location
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  38
1981:  41
1982:  45
1983:  62
1984*c:  41
1985:  36
1986:  33
1987:  37
1988:  33
1989:  27
1990:  25
1991:  36
1992:  29
1993*c:  33
1994:  27
1995:  20
1996:  29
1997:  27
1998:  24

Location
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  66
1981:  42
1982:  49
1983:  50
1984*c:  51
1985:  42
1986:  42
1987:  49
1988:  48
1989:  48
1990:  49
1991:  52
1992:  42
1993*c:  39
1994:  28
1995:  33
1996:  33
1997:  28
1998:  34

Location
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  53
1981:  63
1982:  58
1983:  59
1984*c:  47
1985:  44
1986:  37
1987:  39
1988:  39
1989:  34
1990:  30
1991:  29
1992:  39
1993*c:  28
1994:  29
1995:  19
1996:  21
1997:  28
1998:  28

Location
Montana
Income Year
1980:  39
1981:  23
1982:  50
1983:  52
1984*c:  38
1985:  50
1986:  52
1987:  55
1988:  49
1989:  55
1990:  44
1991:  37
1992:  37
1993*c:  38
1994:  36
1995:  45
1996:  51
1997:  49
1998:  54

Location
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  31
1981:  30
1982:  28
1983:  30
1984*c:  29
1985:  12
1986:  22
1987:  29
1988:  25
1989:  18
1990:  29
1991:  31
1992:  24
1993*c:  20
1994:  29
1995:  24
1996:  27
1997:  28
1998:  18

Location
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  60
1981:  23
1982:  22
1983:  20
1984*c:  21
1985:  24
1986:  22
1987:  32
1988:  27
1989:  18
1990:  20
1991:  28
1992:  26
1993*c:  36
1994:  20
1995:  25
1996:  20
1997:  24
1998:  32

Location
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  20
1981:  36
1982:  30
1983:  28
1984*c:  20
1985:  14
1986:  23
1987:  19
1988:  23
1989:  23
1990:  20
1991:  20
1992:  26
1993*c:  24
1994:  27
1995:  31
1996:  30
1997:  20
1998:  21

Location
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  55
1981:  69
1982:  56
1983:  46
1984*c:  75
1985:  88
1986:  93
1987:  74
1988:  67
1989:  64
1990:  66
1991:  66
1992:  76
1993*c:  90
1994:  81
1995:  47
1996:  70
1997:  43
1998:  56

Location
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  83
1981:  70
1982:  56
1983:  56
1984*c:  49
1985:  38
1986:  47
1987:  48
1988:  48
1989:  54
1990:  52
1991:  46
1992:  52
1993*c:  55
1994:  49
1995:  52
1996:  64
1997:  57
1998:  47

Location
New York
Income Year
1980:  135
1981:  149
1982:  145
1983:  165
1984*c:  173
1985:  193
1986:  137
1987:  155
1988:  114
1989:  164
1990:  192
1991:  175
1992:  194
1993*c:  189
1994:  187
1995:  148
1996:  165
1997:  141
1998:  165

Location
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  61
1981:  64
1982:  58
1983:  62
1984*c:  98
1985:  136
1986:  115
1987:  106
1988:  105
1989:  106
1990:  102
1991:  114
1992:  112
1993*c:  107
1994:  89
1995:  57
1996:  52
1997:  70
1998:  68

Location
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  37
1981:  31
1982:  33
1983:  27
1984*c:  24
1985:  26
1986:  33
1987:  40
1988:  30
1989:  38
1990:  37
1991:  35
1992:  25
1993*c:  29
1994:  25
1995:  19
1996:  22
1997:  24
1998:  18

Location
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  123
1981:  109
1982:  104
1983:  111
1984*c:  114
1985:  105
1986:  124
1987:  125
1988:  134
1989:  128
1990:  133
1991:  131
1992:  124
1993*c:  120
1994:  112
1995:  98
1996:  94
1997:  86
1998:  90

Location
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  50
1981:  47
1982:  45
1983:  40
1984*c:  27
1985:  37
1986:  40
1987:  27
1988:  41
1989:  41
1990:  45
1991:  49
1992:  39
1993*c:  51
1994:  43
1995:  39
1996:  38
1997:  41
1998:  44

Location
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  61
1981:  45
1982:  43
1983:  46
1984*c:  32
1985:  33
1986:  41
1987:  44
1988:  38
1989:  26
1990:  31
1991:  36
1992:  30
1993*c:  28
1994:  27
1995:  29
1996:  26
1997:  21
1998:  27

Location
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  134
1981:  110
1982:  107
1983:  112
1984*c:  133
1985:  141
1986:  132
1987:  100
1988:  101
1989:  87
1990:  95
1991:  134
1992:  145
1993*c:  102
1994:  125
1995:  101
1996:  119
1997:  112
1998:  100

Location
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  45
1981:  24
1982:  29
1983:  33
1984*c:  23
1985:  24
1986:  21
1987:  22
1988:  26
1989:  21
1990:  24
1991:  25
1992:  31
1993*c:  20
1994:  32
1995:  29
1996:  24
1997:  29
1998:  27

Location
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  39
1981:  22
1982:  29
1983:  33
1984*c:  31
1985:  37
1986:  42
1987:  32
1988:  26
1989:  54
1990:  45
1991:  50
1992:  44
1993*c:  41
1994:  45
1995:  30
1996:  16
1997:  19
1998:  25

Location
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  31
1981:  42
1982:  40
1983:  32
1984*c:  34
1985:  35
1986:  30
1987:  27
1988:  31
1989:  31
1990:  29
1991:  37
1992:  54
1993*c:  37
1994:  27
1995:  29
1996:  29
1997:  25
1998:  25

Location
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  38
1981:  51
1982:  59
1983:  46
1984*c:  45
1985:  47
1986:  44
1987:  39
1988:  42
1989:  39
1990:  38
1991:  49
1992:  57
1993*c:  52
1994:  47
1995:  40
1996:  49
1997:  36
1998:  32

Location
Texas
Income Year
1980:  160
1981:  130
1982:  116
1983:  146
1984*c:  150
1985:  132
1986:  152
1987:  149
1988:  135
1989:  176
1990:  143
1991:  145
1992:  140
1993*c:  131
1994:  144
1995:  127
1996:  88
1997:  125
1998:  120

Location
Utah
Income Year
1980:  45
1981:  39
1982:  30
1983:  26
1984*c:  23
1985:  24
1986:  18
1987:  16
1988:  22
1989:  24
1990:  24
1991:  18
1992:  22
1993*c:  32
1994:  23
1995:  23
1996:  24
1997:  27
1998:  22

Location
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  53
1981:  33
1982:  25
1983:  33
1984*c:  20
1985:  20
1986:  20
1987:  26
1988:  21
1989:  19
1990:  25
1991:  27
1992:  26
1993*c:  22
1994:  23
1995:  26
1996:  30
1997:  31
1998:  20

Location
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  53
1981:  41
1982:  52
1983:  45
1984*c:  48
1985:  39
1986:  41
1987:  47
1988:  39
1989:  38
1990:  39
1991:  33
1992:  33
1993*c:  34
1994:  54
1995:  41
1996:  37
1997:  29
1998:  22

Location
Washington
Income Year
1980:  67
1981:  50
1982:  46
1983:  43
1984*c:  32
1985:  38
1986:  38
1987:  26
1988:  30
1989:  41
1990:  50
1991:  37
1992:  32
1993*c:  28
1994:  32
1995:  33
1996:  35
1997:  28
1998:  29

Location
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  76
1981:  66
1982:  55
1983:  60
1984*c:  54
1985:  53
1986:  53
1987:  45
1988:  46
1989:  56
1990:  50
1991:  56
1992:  63
1993*c:  56
1994:  69
1995:  52
1996:  64
1997:  54
1998:  47

Location
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  42
1981:  38
1982:  41
1983:  35
1984*c:  36
1985:  24
1986:  26
1987:  28
1988:  33
1989:  33
1990:  34
1991:  32
1992:  43
1993*c:  38
1994:  26
1995:  23
1996:  35
1997:  38
1998:  42

Location
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  28
1981:  24
1982:  26
1983:  21
1984*c:  28
1985:  26
1986:  20
1987:  24
1988:  30
1989:  32
1990:  26
1991:  33
1992:  24
1993*c:  24
1994:  28
1995:  32
1996:  41
1997:  28
1998:  32

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 4c.  Sample Size of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women without 
a Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State and the 
District of Columbia, Income Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Location
United States
Income Year
1980:  38,977
1981:  35,409
1982:  35,808
1983:  35,863
1984*c:  36,278
1985:  35,712
1986:  35,540
1987:  35,963
1988:  33,375
1989:  36,731
1990:  36,842
1991:  36,347
1992:  36,141
1993*c:  34,974
1994:  34,834
1995:  30,371
1996:  30,725
1997:  30,884
1998:  31,194

Location
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  600
1981:  544
1982:  559
1983:  536
1984*c:  460
1985:  347
1986:  452
1987:  425
1988:  401
1989:  431
1990:  440
1991:  445
1992:  424
1993*c:  391
1994:  415
1995:  382
1996:  390
1997:  393
1998:  391

Location
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  468
1981:  492
1982:  536
1983:  565
1984*c:  616
1985:  630
1986:  540
1987:  505
1988:  534
1989:  508
1990:  535
1991:  543
1992:  536
1993*c:  471
1994:  435
1995:  361
1996:  378
1997:  344
1998:  370

Location
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  621
1981:  498
1982:  469
1983:  451
1984*c:  427
1985:  356
1986:  368
1987:  419
1988:  394
1989:  419
1990:  416
1991:  391
1992:  386
1993*c:  376
1994:  451
1995:  469
1996:  509
1997:  527
1998:  554

Location
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  520
1981:  416
1982:  417
1983:  418
1984*c:  420
1985:  359
1986:  412
1987:  444
1988:  445
1989:  449
1990:  449
1991:  422
1992:  400
1993*c:  398
1994:  380
1995:  374
1996:  367
1997:  361
1998:  354

Location
California
Income Year
1980:  3,434
1981:  3,473
1982:  3,498
1983:  3,551
1984*c:  3,450
1985:  3,078
1986:  3,075
1987:  3,146
1988:  1,848
1989:  3,299
1990:  3,378
1991:  3,345
1992:  3,315
1993*c:  3,158
1994:  3,098
1995:  2,955
1996:  3,034
1997:  3,113
1998:  3,073

Location
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  647
1981:  633
1982:  645
1983:  659
1984*c:  503
1985:  424
1986:  410
1987:  389
1988:  410
1989:  410
1990:  395
1991:  405
1992:  416
1993*c:  415
1994:  426
1995:  431
1996:  464
1997:  471
1998:  483

Location
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  460
1981:  409
1982:  420
1983:  416
1984*c:  409
1985:  438
1986:  381
1987:  349
1988:  320
1989:  333
1990:  342
1991:  342
1992:  354
1993*c:  342
1994:  315
1995:  319
1996:  329
1997:  344
1998:  347

Location
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  407
1981:  318
1982:  341
1983:  387
1984*c:  371
1985:  332
1986:  319
1987:  332
1988:  340
1989:  350
1990:  339
1991:  326
1992:  315
1993*c:  293
1994:  285
1995:  313
1996:  322
1997:  320
1998:  317

Location
DC
Income Year
1980:  436
1981:  351
1982:  340
1983:  318
1984*c:  360
1985:  352
1986:  387
1987:  351
1988:  338
1989:  364
1990:  340
1991:  314
1992:  304
1993*c:  298
1994:  319
1995:  323
1996:  302
1997:  304
1998:  278

Location
Florida
Income Year
1980:  1,203
1981:  1,159
1982:  1,179
1983:  1,162
1984*c:  1,405
1985:  1,520
1986:  1,639
1987:  1,738
1988:  1,768
1989:  1,809
1990:  1,798
1991:  1,687
1992:  1,690
1993*c:  1,680
1994:  1,552
1995:  1,514
1996:  1,459
1997:  1,476
1998:  1,491

Location
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  660
1981:  619
1982:  664
1983:  636
1984*c:  517
1985:  425
1986:  426
1987:  426
1988:  429
1989:  403
1990:  423
1991:  389
1992:  396
1993*c:  431
1994:  785
1995:  504
1996:  504
1997:  540
1998:  535

Location
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  471
1981:  399
1982:  398
1983:  420
1984*c:  386
1985:  378
1986:  353
1987:  369
1988:  363
1989:  362
1990:  337
1991:  345
1992:  348
1993*c:  341
1994:  308
1995:  325
1996:  319
1997:  276
1998:  278

Location
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  461
1981:  361
1982:  396
1983:  425
1984*c:  443
1985:  408
1986:  426
1987:  415
1988:  410
1989:  448
1990:  450
1991:  420
1992:  415
1993*c:  470
1994:  402
1995:  391
1996:  422
1997:  435
1998:  437

Location
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  1,417
1981:  1,372
1982:  1,287
1983:  1,319
1984*c:  1,426
1985:  1,539
1986:  1,456
1987:  1,459
1988:  1,445
1989:  1,474
1990:  1,486
1991:  1,541
1992:  1,513
1993*c:  1,468
1994:  1,523
1995:  1,307
1996:  1,311
1997:  1,294
1998:  1,314

Location
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  711
1981:  670
1982:  657
1983:  632
1984*c:  537
1985:  523
1986:  506
1987:  513
1988:  427
1989:  402
1990:  389
1991:  399
1992:  405
1993*c:  400
1994:  323
1995:  358
1996:  373
1997:  400
1998:  411

Location
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  600
1981:  505
1982:  499
1983:  542
1984*c:  475
1985:  408
1986:  417
1987:  425
1988:  412
1989:  421
1990:  440
1991:  449
1992:  463
1993*c:  404
1994:  359
1995:  378
1996:  379
1997:  381
1998:  351

Location
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  495
1981:  388
1982:  386
1983:  418
1984*c:  427
1985:  408
1986:  408
1987:  424
1988:  414
1989:  437
1990:  443
1991:  448
1992:  454
1993*c:  412
1994:  369
1995:  348
1996:  334
1997:  340
1998:  354

Location
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  576
1981:  484
1982:  505
1983:  514
1984*c:  437
1985:  395
1986:  414
1987:  415
1988:  366
1989:  380
1990:  388
1991:  404
1992:  420
1993*c:  394
1994:  363
1995:  357
1996:  386
1997:  377
1998:  392

Location
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  540
1981:  497
1982:  489
1983:  479
1984*c:  419
1985:  385
1986:  348
1987:  367
1988:  378
1989:  354
1990:  358
1991:  356
1992:  360
1993*c:  342
1994:  389
1995:  373
1996:  393
1997:  403
1998:  416

Location
Maine
Income Year
1980:  506
1981:  439
1982:  442
1983:  474
1984*c:  412
1985:  326
1986:  335
1987:  340
1988:  357
1989:  385
1990:  375
1991:  359
1992:  351
1993*c:  340
1994:  285
1995:  309
1996:  299
1997:  321
1998:  332

Location
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  615
1981:  654
1982:  645
1983:  648
1984*c:  602
1985:  563
1986:  517
1987:  515
1988:  350
1989:  390
1990:  388
1991:  385
1992:  390
1993*c:  334
1994:  360
1995:  370
1996:  364
1997:  388
1998:  364

Location
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  817
1981:  796
1982:  819
1983:  834
1984*c:  1,162
1985:  1,429
1986:  1,412
1987:  1,440
1988:  1,369
1989:  1,387
1990:  1,405
1991:  1,359
1992:  1,374
1993*c:  1,397
1994:  1,437
1995:  712
1996:  718
1997:  729
1998:  762

Location
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  1,187
1981:  1,131
1982:  1,166
1983:  1,072
1984*c:  1,275
1985:  1,393
1986:  1,360
1987:  1,379
1988:  1,354
1989:  1,441
1990:  1,446
1991:  1,456
1992:  1,435
1993*c:  1,403
1994:  1,451
1995:  1,026
1996:  1,018
1997:  971
1998:  987

Location
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  567
1981:  574
1982:  604
1983:  678
1984*c:  529
1985:  427
1986:  380
1987:  386
1988:  378
1989:  358
1990:  379
1991:  369
1992:  403
1993*c:  385
1994:  380
1995:  424
1996:  434
1997:  450
1998:  422

Location
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  560
1981:  453
1982:  453
1983:  443
1984*c:  405
1985:  428
1986:  409
1987:  426
1988:  412
1989:  455
1990:  430
1991:  428
1992:  457
1993*c:  444
1994:  366
1995:  385
1996:  384
1997:  351
1998:  348

Location
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  650
1981:  615
1982:  644
1983:  623
1984*c:  602
1985:  518
1986:  469
1987:  468
1988:  392
1989:  393
1990:  384
1991:  388
1992:  401
1993*c:  371
1994:  294
1995:  355
1996:  346
1997:  343
1998:  341

Location
Montana
Income Year
1980:  525
1981:  451
1982:  454
1983:  449
1984*c:  438
1985:  462
1986:  462
1987:  451
1988:  445
1989:  467
1990:  467
1991:  430
1992:  429
1993*c:  427
1994:  410
1995:  359
1996:  382
1997:  403
1998:  415

Location
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  535
1981:  467
1982:  432
1983:  420
1984*c:  461
1985:  426
1986:  439
1987:  433
1988:  414
1989:  454
1990:  459
1991:  468
1992:  492
1993*c:  450
1994:  437
1995:  370
1996:  375
1997:  381
1998:  381

Location
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  674
1981:  424
1982:  376
1983:  369
1984*c:  349
1985:  347
1986:  353
1987:  358
1988:  383
1989:  410
1990:  425
1991:  421
1992:  394
1993*c:  374
1994:  374
1995:  337
1996:  375
1997:  428
1998:  477

Location
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  443
1981:  340
1982:  343
1983:  338
1984*c:  318
1985:  282
1986:  291
1987:  323
1988:  312
1989:  322
1990:  281
1991:  294
1992:  309
1993*c:  265
1994:  279
1995:  298
1996:  277
1997:  294
1998:  316

Location
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  1,078
1981:  994
1982:  974
1983:  1,000
1984*c:  1,280
1985:  1,544
1986:  1,535
1987:  1,464
1988:  1,478
1989:  1,558
1990:  1,612
1991:  1,615
1992:  1,583
1993*c:  1,611
1994:  1,566
1995:  992
1996:  994
1997:  1,011
1998:  1,053

Location
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  743
1981:  469
1982:  545
1983:  555
1984*c:  570
1985:  496
1986:  501
1987:  483
1988:  520
1989:  564
1990:  515
1991:  500
1992:  468
1993*c:  441
1994:  510
1995:  525
1996:  558
1997:  573
1998:  570

Location
New York
Income Year
1980:  2,331
1981:  2,234
1982:  2,353
1983:  2,329
1984*c:  2,559
1985:  2,671
1986:  2,615
1987:  2,593
1988:  1,693
1989:  2,796
1990:  2,812
1991:  2,775
1992:  2,695
1993*c:  2,615
1994:  2,552
1995:  2,145
1996:  2,146
1997:  2,029
1998:  2,027

Location
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  685
1981:  626
1982:  671
1983:  680
1984*c:  1,041
1985:  1,377
1986:  1,410
1987:  1,379
1988:  1,411
1989:  1,433
1990:  1,419
1991:  1,437
1992:  1,464
1993*c:  1,349
1994:  1,208
1995:  715
1996:  782
1997:  750
1998:  764

Location
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  531
1981:  403
1982:  429
1983:  422
1984*c:  442
1985:  436
1986:  430
1987:  450
1988:  452
1989:  428
1990:  456
1991:  454
1992:  430
1993*c:  427
1994:  391
1995:  345
1996:  334
1997:  344
1998:  349

Location
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  1,373
1981:  1,335
1982:  1,357
1983:  1,312
1984*c:  1,412
1985:  1,472
1986:  1,523
1987:  1,535
1988:  1,515
1989:  1,514
1990:  1,593
1991:  1,566
1992:  1,581
1993*c:  1,495
1994:  1,445
1995:  1,070
1996:  1,054
1997:  1,126
1998:  1,106

Location
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  547
1981:  479
1982:  497
1983:  488
1984*c:  472
1985:  476
1986:  408
1987:  429
1988:  397
1989:  403
1990:  416
1991:  413
1992:  440
1993*c:  452
1994:  454
1995:  418
1996:  433
1997:  421
1998:  424

Location
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  600
1981:  477
1982:  472
1983:  482
1984*c:  425
1985:  334
1986:  353
1987:  306
1988:  336
1989:  368
1990:  349
1991:  385
1992:  384
1993*c:  371
1994:  370
1995:  367
1996:  346
1997:  382
1998:  416

Location
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  1,424
1981:  1,389
1982:  1,430
1983:  1,378
1984*c:  1,439
1985:  1,460
1986:  1,387
1987:  1,440
1988:  1,500
1989:  1,507
1990:  1,537
1991:  1,526
1992:  1,474
1993*c:  1,423
1994:  1,470
1995:  1,273
1996:  1,250
1997:  1,241
1998:  1,277

Location
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  454
1981:  335
1982:  313
1983:  354
1984*c:  331
1985:  310
1986:  309
1987:  308
1988:  309
1989:  312
1990:  282
1991:  299
1992:  299
1993*c:  317
1994:  299
1995:  278
1996:  302
1997:  289
1998:  309

Location
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  437
1981:  415
1982:  424
1983:  410
1984*c:  404
1985:  427
1986:  447
1987:  506
1988:  479
1989:  525
1990:  488
1991:  472
1992:  473
1993*c:  430
1994:  365
1995:  322
1996:  324
1997:  328
1998:  321

Location
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  553
1981:  516
1982:  481
1983:  469
1984*c:  466
1985:  443
1986:  494
1987:  495
1988:  476
1989:  457
1990:  431
1991:  425
1992:  468
1993*c:  469
1994:  429
1995:  369
1996:  364
1997:  322
1998:  331

Location
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  523
1981:  510
1982:  476
1983:  464
1984*c:  451
1985:  383
1986:  382
1987:  411
1988:  412
1989:  407
1990:  414
1991:  448
1992:  443
1993*c:  412
1994:  398
1995:  379
1996:  373
1997:  376
1998:  420

Location
Texas
Income Year
1980:  1,965
1981:  1,949
1982:  1,913
1983:  1,961
1984*c:  1,984
1985:  1,926
1986:  1,850
1987:  1,897
1988:  1,959
1989:  2,033
1990:  1,982
1991:  1,893
1992:  1,882
1993*c:  1,869
1994:  1,822
1995:  1,726
1996:  1,809
1997:  1,796
1998:  1,817

Location
Utah
Income Year
1980:  682
1981:  508
1982:  498
1983:  491
1984*c:  390
1985:  340
1986:  378
1987:  390
1988:  380
1989:  384
1990:  404
1991:  377
1992:  371
1993*c:  372
1994:  344
1995:  371
1996:  400
1997:  403
1998:  394

Location
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  441
1981:  344
1982:  342
1983:  335
1984*c:  309
1985:  305
1986:  315
1987:  319
1988:  312
1989:  308
1990:  309
1991:  303
1992:  259
1993*c:  259
1994:  301
1995:  317
1996:  295
1997:  284
1998:  287

Location
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  690
1981:  690
1982:  707
1983:  708
1984*c:  606
1985:  490
1986:  531
1987:  563
1988:  546
1989:  568
1990:  575
1991:  517
1992:  532
1993*c:  515
1994:  769
1995:  455
1996:  464
1997:  455
1998:  454

Location
Washington
Income Year
1980:  577
1981:  521
1982:  549
1983:  549
1984*c:  456
1985:  369
1986:  367
1987:  389
1988:  421
1989:  452
1990:  449
1991:  405
1992:  380
1993*c:  361
1994:  370
1995:  367
1996:  379
1997:  437
1998:  442

Location
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  545
1981:  422
1982:  422
1983:  401
1984*c:  417
1985:  404
1986:  410
1987:  415
1988:  404
1989:  406
1990:  410
1991:  414
1992:  364
1993*c:  364
1994:  374
1995:  385
1996:  351
1997:  361
1998:  359

Location
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  553
1981:  549
1982:  550
1983:  532
1984*c:  439
1985:  445
1986:  470
1987:  475
1988:  462
1989:  472
1990:  488
1991:  490
1992:  500
1993*c:  459
1994:  441
1995:  457
1996:  444
1997:  411
1998:  408

Location
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  439
1981:  312
1982:  342
1983:  347
1984*c:  344
1985:  298
1986:  261
1987:  286
1988:  305
1989:  321
1990:  316
1991:  305
1992:  302
1993*c:  289
1994:  386
1995:  368
1996:  376
1997:  387
1998:  375

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 4d.  Sample Size of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women with a 
Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State and the 
District of Columbia, Income Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a*b

Location
United States
Income Year
1980:  3,224
1981:  2,918
1982:  2,761
1983:  2,727
1984*c:  2,829
1985:  2,679
1986:  2,626
1987:  2,530
1988:  2,410
1989:  2,705
1990:  2,754
1991:  2,762
1992:  2,781
1993*c:  2,970
1994:  3,008
1995:  2,725
1996:  2,759
1997:  2,764
1998:  2,649

Location
Alabama
Income Year
1980:  67
1981:  49
1982:  38
1983:  42
1984*c:  42
1985:  40
1986:  38
1987:  38
1988:  31
1989:  39
1990:  51
1991:  44
1992:  35
1993*c:  54
1994:  46
1995:  39
1996:  41
1997:  53
1998:  50

Location
Alaska
Income Year
1980:  33
1981:  25
1982:  29
1983:  28
1984*c:  25
1985:  26
1986:  37
1987:  24
1988:  20
1989:  29
1990:  26
1991:  35
1992:  26
1993*c:  40
1994:  27
1995:  20
1996:  24
1997:  32
1998:  29

Location
Arizona
Income Year
1980:  53
1981:  44
1982:  33
1983:  48
1984*c:  41
1985:  31
1986:  34
1987:  20
1988:  26
1989:  25
1990:  23
1991:  26
1992:  29
1993*c:  34
1994:  38
1995:  35
1996:  52
1997:  47
1998:  34

Location
Arkansas
Income Year
1980:  79
1981:  55
1982:  59
1983:  51
1984*c:  45
1985:  41
1986:  47
1987:  47
1988:  49
1989:  38
1990:  38
1991:  48
1992:  54
1993*c:  48
1994:  42
1995:  55
1996:  46
1997:  45
1998:  42

Location
California
Income Year
1980:  277
1981:  308
1982:  288
1983:  269
1984*c:  268
1985:  234
1986:  242
1987:  217
1988:  134
1989:  217
1990:  238
1991:  215
1992:  255
1993*c:  236
1994:  239
1995:  220
1996:  235
1997:  235
1998:  222

Location
Colorado
Income Year
1980:  34
1981:  43
1982:  45
1983:  34
1984*c:  41
1985:  21
1986:  32
1987:  36
1988:  30
1989:  28
1990:  27
1991:  51
1992:  32
1993*c:  28
1994:  32
1995:  42
1996:  36
1997:  41
1998:  45

Location
Connecticut
Income Year
1980:  31
1981:  19
1982:  25
1983:  25
1984*c:  28
1985:  28
1986:  18
1987:  22
1988:  26
1989:  14
1990:  19
1991:  19
1992:  27
1993*c:  29
1994:  14
1995:  17
1996:  19
1997:  21
1998:  31

Location
Delaware
Income Year
1980:  39
1981:  38
1982:  27
1983:  15
1984*c:  29
1985:  26
1986:  20
1987:  21
1988:  24
1989:  26
1990:  15
1991:  17
1992:  19
1993*c:  16
1994:  21
1995:  29
1996:  26
1997:  24
1998:  22

Location
DC
Income Year
1980:  38
1981:  34
1982:  37
1983:  38
1984*c:  31
1985:  28
1986:  31
1987:  35
1988:  26
1989:  30
1990:  21
1991:  25
1992:  22
1993*c:  24
1994:  30
1995:  28
1996:  34
1997:  19
1998:  24

Location
Florida
Income Year
1980:  99
1981:  113
1982:  121
1983:  117
1984*c:  119
1985:  119
1986:  118
1987:  120
1988:  118
1989:  110
1990:  111
1991:  129
1992:  114
1993*c:  125
1994:  146
1995:  150
1996:  135
1997:  126
1998:  114

Location
Georgia
Income Year
1980:  74
1981:  55
1982:  60
1983:  60
1984*c:  53
1985:  39
1986:  44
1987:  47
1988:  48
1989:  45
1990:  37
1991:  39
1992:  35
1993*c:  38
1994:  81
1995:  56
1996:  44
1997:  42
1998:  46

Location
Hawaii
Income Year
1980:  36
1981:  26
1982:  27
1983:  30
1984*c:  21
1985:  20
1986:  21
1987:  14
1988:  14
1989:  22
1990:  19
1991:  16
1992:  22
1993*c:  18
1994:  18
1995:  15
1996:  18
1997:  19
1998:  13

Location
Idaho
Income Year
1980:  38
1981:  35
1982:  29
1983:  37
1984*c:  35
1985:  41
1986:  30
1987:  30
1988:  42
1989:  35
1990:  39
1991:  37
1992:  30
1993*c:  26
1994:  32
1995:  39
1996:  36
1997:  40
1998:  32

Location
Illinois
Income Year
1980:  95
1981:  94
1982:  83
1983:  85
1984*c:  114
1985:  93
1986:  88
1987:  79
1988:  92
1989:  104
1990:  102
1991:  80
1992:  112
1993*c:  120
1994:  124
1995:  99
1996:  95
1997:  116
1998:  90

Location
Indiana
Income Year
1980:  56
1981:  56
1982:  46
1983:  52
1984*c:  53
1985:  47
1986:  44
1987:  33
1988:  25
1989:  22
1990:  25
1991:  24
1992:  34
1993*c:  32
1994:  34
1995:  34
1996:  31
1997:  42
1998:  27

Location
Iowa
Income Year
1980:  61
1981:  46
1982:  29
1983:  17
1984*c:  30
1985:  29
1986:  33
1987:  23
1988:  21
1989:  30
1990:  30
1991:  25
1992:  30
1993*c:  23
1994:  19
1995:  26
1996:  28
1997:  30
1998:  21

Location
Kansas
Income Year
1980:  48
1981:  23
1982:  23
1983:  24
1984*c:  21
1985:  27
1986:  18
1987:  23
1988:  17
1989:  33
1990:  28
1991:  21
1992:  23
1993*c:  34
1994:  26
1995:  21
1996:  25
1997:  36
1998:  29

Location
Kentucky
Income Year
1980:  46
1981:  46
1982:  49
1983:  27
1984*c:  29
1985:  32
1986:  43
1987:  46
1988:  37
1989:  32
1990:  58
1991:  54
1992:  41
1993*c:  40
1994:  61
1995:  56
1996:  47
1997:  54
1998:  51

Location
Louisiana
Income Year
1980:  40
1981:  61
1982:  43
1983:  42
1984*c:  46
1985:  43
1986:  37
1987:  39
1988:  37
1989:  35
1990:  30
1991:  35
1992:  37
1993*c:  44
1994:  31
1995:  42
1996:  37
1997:  30
1998:  42

Location
Maine
Income Year
1980:  43
1981:  28
1982:  33
1983:  38
1984*c:  31
1985:  37
1986:  34
1987:  41
1988:  34
1989:  28
1990:  24
1991:  27
1992:  35
1993*c:  40
1994:  44
1995:  31
1996:  31
1997:  38
1998:  35

Location
Maryland
Income Year
1980:  42
1981:  42
1982:  48
1983:  38
1984*c:  42
1985:  38
1986:  27
1987:  27
1988:  23
1989:  27
1990:  30
1991:  23
1992:  18
1993*c:  22
1994:  22
1995:  22
1996:  23
1997:  21
1998:  24

Location
Massachusetts
Income Year
1980:  57
1981:  61
1982:  39
1983:  57
1984*c:  78
1985:  93
1986:  79
1987:  94
1988:  83
1989:  115
1990:  113
1991:  102
1992:  102
1993*c:  97
1994:  121
1995:  71
1996:  64
1997:  62
1998:  59

Location
Michigan
Income Year
1980:  102
1981:  113
1982:  96
1983:  124
1984*c:  139
1985:  136
1986:  141
1987:  118
1988:  139
1989:  143
1990:  141
1991:  140
1992:  139
1993*c:  138
1994:  136
1995:  102
1996:  115
1997:  102
1998:  93

Location
Minnesota
Income Year
1980:  39
1981:  37
1982:  37
1983:  41
1984*c:  36
1985:  28
1986:  30
1987:  25
1988:  13
1989:  21
1990:  28
1991:  30
1992:  30
1993*c:  33
1994:  24
1995:  25
1996:  31
1997:  31
1998:  25

Location
Mississippi
Income Year
1980:  77
1981:  58
1982:  50
1983:  49
1984*c:  51
1985:  47
1986:  45
1987:  42
1988:  49
1989:  50
1990:  57
1991:  46
1992:  52
1993*c:  49
1994:  44
1995:  44
1996:  45
1997:  43
1998:  30

Location
Missouri
Income Year
1980:  54
1981:  43
1982:  40
1983:  45
1984*c:  52
1985:  42
1986:  37
1987:  36
1988:  30
1989:  28
1990:  38
1991:  30
1992:  39
1993*c:  33
1994:  34
1995:  28
1996:  45
1997:  31
1998:  23

Location
Montana
Income Year
1980:  38
1981:  27
1982:  32
1983:  43
1984*c:  33
1985:  43
1986:  31
1987:  40
1988:  39
1989:  30
1990:  38
1991:  44
1992:  34
1993*c:  39
1994:  39
1995:  33
1996:  31
1997:  30
1998:  37

Location
Nebraska
Income Year
1980:  46
1981:  28
1982:  22
1983:  21
1984*c:  21
1985:  20
1986:  24
1987:  20
1988:  18
1989:  24
1990:  26
1991:  23
1992:  26
1993*c:  30
1994:  19
1995:  28
1996:  27
1997:  30
1998:  33

Location
Nevada
Income Year
1980:  50
1981:  19
1982:  24
1983:  27
1984*c:  23
1985:  21
1986:  15
1987:  31
1988:  27
1989:  20
1990:  32
1991:  38
1992:  24
1993*c:  29
1994:  36
1995:  25
1996:  27
1997:  30
1998:  31

Location
New Hampshire
Income Year
1980:  26
1981:  28
1982:  27
1983:  24
1984*c:  17
1985:  15
1986:  21
1987:  16
1988:  18
1989:  20
1990:  18
1991:  18
1992:  23
1993*c:  18
1994:  13
1995:  17
1996:  32
1997:  30
1998:  30

Location
New Jersey
Income Year
1980:  72
1981:  87
1982:  76
1983:  52
1984*c:  73
1985:  98
1986:  100
1987:  83
1988:  66
1989:  78
1990:  71
1991:  86
1992:  89
1993*c:  98
1994:  104
1995:  66
1996:  77
1997:  72
1998:  61

Location
New Mexico
Income Year
1980:  57
1981:  57
1982:  41
1983:  37
1984*c:  35
1985:  34
1986:  48
1987:  30
1988:  37
1989:  45
1990:  44
1991:  42
1992:  42
1993*c:  53
1994:  45
1995:  56
1996:  54
1997:  41
1998:  50

Location
New York
Income Year
1980:  187
1981:  200
1982:  171
1983:  180
1984*c:  220
1985:  180
1986:  181
1987:  157
1988:  115
1989:  203
1990:  220
1991:  194
1992:  205
1993*c:  219
1994:  228
1995:  204
1996:  196
1997:  205
1998:  220

Location
North Carolina
Income Year
1980:  62
1981:  63
1982:  66
1983:  47
1984*c:  90
1985:  100
1986:  93
1987:  100
1988:  115
1989:  128
1990:  104
1991:  103
1992:  124
1993*c:  141
1994:  136
1995:  69
1996:  67
1997:  70
1998:  70

Location
North Dakota
Income Year
1980:  39
1981:  27
1982:  13
1983:  27
1984*c:  32
1985:  26
1986:  18
1987:  25
1988:  29
1989:  30
1990:  30
1991:  27
1992:  20
1993*c:  21
1994:  20
1995:  15
1996:  21
1997:  22
1998:  29

Location
Ohio
Income Year
1980:  125
1981:  117
1982:  106
1983:  123
1984*c:  121
1985:  116
1986:  99
1987:  93
1988:  100
1989:  114
1990:  120
1991:  123
1992:  114
1993*c:  142
1994:  131
1995:  102
1996:  95
1997:  101
1998:  120

Location
Oklahoma
Income Year
1980:  46
1981:  43
1982:  40
1983:  38
1984*c:  39
1985:  42
1986:  25
1987:  22
1988:  34
1989:  32
1990:  33
1991:  35
1992:  27
1993*c:  44
1994:  41
1995:  41
1996:  41
1997:  55
1998:  50

Location
Oregon
Income Year
1980:  63
1981:  49
1982:  40
1983:  53
1984*c:  41
1985:  21
1986:  20
1987:  26
1988:  36
1989:  31
1990:  36
1991:  43
1992:  40
1993*c:  26
1994:  33
1995:  43
1996:  42
1997:  42
1998:  35

Location
Pennsylvania
Income Year
1980:  146
1981:  130
1982:  97
1983:  119
1984*c:  119
1985:  110
1986:  106
1987:  117
1988:  110
1989:  114
1990:  122
1991:  131
1992:  119
1993*c:  134
1994:  152
1995:  127
1996:  125
1997:  105
1998:  125

Location
Rhode Island
Income Year
1980:  50
1981:  35
1982:  33
1983:  38
1984*c:  35
1985:  32
1986:  24
1987:  27
1988:  27
1989:  18
1990:  20
1991:  22
1992:  24
1993*c:  28
1994:  15
1995:  39
1996:  31
1997:  28
1998:  23

Location
South Carolina
Income Year
1980:  37
1981:  39
1982:  29
1983:  28
1984*c:  34
1985:  39
1986:  44
1987:  40
1988:  40
1989:  45
1990:  42
1991:  49
1992:  44
1993*c:  41
1994:  34
1995:  31
1996:  37
1997:  40
1998:  39

Location
South Dakota
Income Year
1980:  28
1981:  21
1982:  40
1983:  24
1984*c:  21
1985:  39
1986:  27
1987:  33
1988:  28
1989:  33
1990:  37
1991:  28
1992:  41
1993*c:  43
1994:  37
1995:  31
1996:  29
1997:  30
1998:  28

Location
Tennessee
Income Year
1980:  41
1981:  43
1982:  67
1983:  56
1984*c:  47
1985:  56
1986:  55
1987:  42
1988:  52
1989:  46
1990:  36
1991:  48
1992:  66
1993*c:  69
1994:  41
1995:  44
1996:  68
1997:  54
1998:  43

Location
Texas
Income Year
1980:  137
1981:  116
1982:  122
1983:  127
1984*c:  120
1985:  116
1986:  134
1987:  135
1988:  140
1989:  133
1990:  138
1991:  144
1992:  126
1993*c:  150
1994:  127
1995:  141
1996:  136
1997:  147
1998:  134

Location
Utah
Income Year
1980:  40
1981:  25
1982:  39
1983:  33
1984*c:  26
1985:  22
1986:  19
1987:  17
1988:  21
1989:  32
1990:  17
1991:  23
1992:  16
1993*c:  25
1994:  26
1995:  31
1996:  22
1997:  28
1998:  25

Location
Vermont
Income Year
1980:  36
1981:  22
1982:  35
1983:  25
1984*c:  22
1985:  22
1986:  28
1987:  19
1988:  22
1989:  20
1990:  23
1991:  33
1992:  30
1993*c:  32
1994:  26
1995:  19
1996:  24
1997:  30
1998:  28

Location
Virginia
Income Year
1980:  49
1981:  47
1982:  54
1983:  34
1984*c:  32
1985:  32
1986:  32
1987:  33
1988:  32
1989:  43
1990:  44
1991:  45
1992:  32
1993*c:  21
1994:  56
1995:  41
1996:  49
1997:  44
1998:  41

Location
Washington
Income Year
1980:  74
1981:  42
1982:  46
1983:  36
1984*c:  38
1985:  34
1986:  35
1987:  32
1988:  19
1989:  32
1990:  46
1991:  33
1992:  17
1993*c:  31
1994:  49
1995:  38
1996:  37
1997:  31
1998:  42

Location
West Virginia
Income Year
1980:  58
1981:  42
1982:  51
1983:  41
1984*c:  42
1985:  25
1986:  28
1987:  43
1988:  46
1989:  46
1990:  40
1991:  40
1992:  48
1993*c:  59
1994:  53
1995:  62
1996:  66
1997:  50
1998:  45

Location
Wisconsin
Income Year
1980:  28
1981:  39
1982:  30
1983:  41
1984*c:  27
1985:  24
1986:  26
1987:  24
1988:  28
1989:  40
1990:  32
1991:  29
1992:  37
1993*c:  36
1994:  35
1995:  38
1996:  35
1997:  36
1998:  25

Location
Wyoming
Income Year
1980:  31
1981:  20
1982:  26
1983:  20
1984*c:  21
1985:  26
1986:  25
1987:  28
1988:  23
1989:  22
1990:  17
1991:  23
1992:  21
1993*c:  20
1994:  26
1995:  38
1996:  27
1997:  33
1998:  32

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.



Appendix Table 5.  Estimated Correlation Coefficient of Household Size-Adjusted 
Income from Year to Year in the United States, Income Years 1980 through 
1998*a,*b

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1980 to 1981
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.705
With Disabilities:  0.635
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.725
With Disabilities:  0.645

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1981 to 1982
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.709
With Disabilities:  0.690
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.713
With Disabilities:  0.688

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1982 to 1983
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.718
With Disabilities:  0.647
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.737
With Disabilities:  0.683

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1983 to 1984*c
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.736
With Disabilities:  0.620
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.761
With Disabilities:  0.651

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1984 to 1985*d
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.736
With Disabilities:  0.653
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.761
With Disabilities:  0.689

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1985 to 1986
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.736
With Disabilities:  0.653
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.740
With Disabilities:  0.689

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1986 to 1987
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.726
With Disabilities:  0.617
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.751
With Disabilities:  0.760

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1987 to 1988
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.699
With Disabilities:  0.631
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.713
With Disabilities:  0.676

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1988 to 1989
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.728
With Disabilities:  0.588
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.732
With Disabilities:  0.699

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1989 to 1990
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.708
With Disabilities:  0.712
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.724
With Disabilities:  0.679

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1990 to 1991
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.710
With Disabilities:  0.648
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.728
With Disabilities:  0.691

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1991 to 1992
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.748
With Disabilities:  0.718
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.749
With Disabilities:  0.733

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1992 to 1993*c
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.704
With Disabilities:  0.668
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.730
With Disabilities:  0.720

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1993 to 1994*c
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.700
With Disabilities:  0.608
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.724
With Disabilities:  0.631

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1994 to 1995*d
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.700
With Disabilities:  0.627
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.724
With Disabilities:  0.631

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1995 to 1996
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.534
With Disabilities:  0.627
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.580
With Disabilities:  0.628

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1996 to 1997
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.547
With Disabilities:  0.535
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.566
With Disabilities:  0.557

Pair of Consecutive  Income Years:  1997 to 1998
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.587
With Disabilities:  0.525
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.602
With Disabilities:  0.630

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  In the March CPS of any given year, approximately half of the households 
were surveyed the prior March, while the remaining households are eligible to be 
surveyed the following March.  These estimated correlation coefficients measure 
the degree to which people's disability status in one year are related to their 
disability status in the next year.

b.  The unit of the analysis is the individual not the household.  Individuals 
are assumed to receive an equal share of their household's size-adjusted income.  
Size-adjusted income is household income by dividing income by the square root 
of household size.  The CPS collect income for the year prior to the survey, the 
"income year".  Income is before taxes but after public cash transfers.  
Negative sources of income are converted to zero.  All dollar amounts are in 
1998 dollars.  

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

d.  It is not possible to identify individuals that are in both the March 1985 
and March 1986 surveys, therefore estimated correlation coefficients for income 
years 1984 to 1985 are not available.  A conservative proxy is provided - the 
larger of the values from income years 1983 to 1984 and 1985 to 1986.  This 
problem occurs for income years 1994 to 1995, as well.


