Economics of Disability Research Report #5:
Economic Outcomes of Working-Age People with Disabilities
over the Business Cycle - an Examination of the 1980s and 1990s

Richard V. Burkhauser
Department of Policy Analysis and Management
Cornell University

Mary C. Daly
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco

Andrew J. Houtenville
School of Industrial and Labor Relations
Cornell University

Nigar Nargis
Department of Economics
Cornell University
March 2001

Economic Outcomes of Working-Age People with Disabilities
over the Business Cycle: An Examination of the 1980s and 1990s

Abstract

We examine the rate of employment and the household income of the working-age 
population (aged 25-61) with and without disabilities over the business cycles 
of the 1980s and 1990s using data from the March Current Population Survey and 
the National Health Interview Survey. In general, we find that while the 
employment of working-age men and women with and without disabilities exhibited 
a procyclical trend during the 1980s business cycle, this was not the case 
during the 1990s expansion. During the 1990s, the employment of working-age men 
and women without disabilities continued to be procyclical, but the employment 
rates of their counterparts with disabilities declined over the entire 1990s 
business cycle. Although increases in disability transfer income replaced a 
significant fraction of their lost earnings, the household income of men and 
women with disabilities fell relative to the rest of the population over the 
decade.

Economic Outcomes of Working-Age People with Disabilities
over the Business Cycle: An Examination of the 1980s and 1990s

I. Introduction

In general, the rate of employment and household income of workers fluctuate 
with the business cycle, rising during expansions and falling during 
contractions (Blackburn and Bloom 1989; Burkhauser et al. 1999). Although this 
pattern holds for the average worker, there is considerable variation in 
business cycle outcomes across workers with different levels of education, job 
skills, and work experience (Blank and Card 1993; Hoynes 2000). Research also 
documents substantial variation in outcomes across the distribution of household 
income, with workers in lower income households being more vulnerable to 
economic downturns and less responsive to economic upturns than the average 
worker (Karoly 1993; Karoly and Burtless 1995).

In this paper, we examine the relative outcomes of workers with disabilities 
across the business cycle. We find that, on average, the employment rate and 
household income of working-age people with disabilities are more adversely 
affected during economic downturns than are those of working-age men and women 
without disabilities. Our findings with respect to economic expansions are less 
consistent; a different pattern emerges in the 1990s than in the 1980s. Whereas 
employment and household income of all groups rose during the 1980s expansion, 
only the outcomes of working-age men and women without disabilities continued to 
be procyclical in the 1990s. The employment rates of their counterparts with 
disabilities declined over the entire 1990s business cycle. While increases in 
disability transfer income replaced a significant fraction of their lost 
earnings, the household income of men and women with disabilities also fell 
relative to the population without disabilities over the decade.

II. Data and Measurement Issues
Data

We compare the employment and economic well-being of people with and without 
disabilities over the 20-year period from 1980 through 1999 using data from the 
March Current Population Survey (CPS). The CPS is a monthly survey of a 
nationally representative sample of the civilian non-institutionalized United 
States population, conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The annual March 
Demographic Supplement contains detailed questions about household composition, 
employment, and sources of income, making it a valuable source of time-series 
data on changes in economic outcomes over the business cycle. The sample size in 
each year of the March CPS is in excess of 55,000 households and 150,000 
individuals.

We test the robustness of our results using data from the National Health 
Interview Survey (NHIS) from 1983 to1996.*1 The NHIS is an annual survey of a 
nationally representative sample of civilian non-institutionalized United States 
households. It is conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics and 
used to monitor trends in illness and disability in the United States 
population. Each year the NHIS surveys approximately 40,000 households and 
100,000 individuals. Because of its focus on health, the NHIS has far more 
information on illness and disability than the CPS and less information on 
employment and household income. We use data from the NHIS to validate the 
trends in disability prevalence observed in the CPS data and to check the 
robustness of our CPS-based business cycle results with an alternative data 
source. 

Defining the Population with Disabilities 

Evaluation of the working-age population with disabilities must start with a 
definition of that population. Disability is a more complex concept to define or 
measure than age, race, or gender, and definitions of the population frequently 
vary by research discipline and policy purpose.*2  For example, the Americans 
with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), with the goal of establishing broad civil 
rights, defines disability as a physical or mental impairment that substantially 
limits one or more major life activity, a record of such an impairment, or being 
regarded as having such an impairment. In contrast, the Social Security 
Administration, with the goal of awarding disability benefits, defines 
disability as the inability to engage in substantial gainful activity by reason 
of a medically determinable physical impairment expected to result in death or 
last at least 12 months. 

In the economics literature, researchers' definitions of disability frequently 
are functions of the available data. In most surveys of employment and household 
income, the data available on health come from a small set of questions that ask 
respondents to assess whether their health limits the kind of amount of work 
they can perform.*3 The use of self-reported work disability is controversial. 
Self-perception of disability as captured by this measure can be influenced by 
social context, such as the presence of benefit programs targeted on those with 
disabilities and workplace barriers or accommodations. Thus, reports of a work 
disability may change over time, even holding underlying health constant 
(Kirchner 1996). 4 While the problems inherent in these measures have led some 
researchers (Myers 1982, 1983) to conclude that no useful information can be 
gained from such data, numerous researchers have shown that self-reported 
measures of work limitations are highly correlated with other more objective 
assessments of health and with clinical measures of disability (see Bound and 
Burkhauser 1999 for a review of this literature.) Moreover, as discussed 
elsewhere (Burkhauser and Daly 1996), we believe such data are capable of 
identifying people with serious functional limitations. 

In the CPS, the population with disabilities is defined by a work-limitations 
question that asks, "Does anyone in this household have a health problem or 
disability which prevents them from working or which limits the kind or amount 
of work they can do? If yes, Who is that? (Anyone else?)"*5 While this single-
question measure of work-limitations is coarser than a measure of disability 
based on a more detailed set of self-reported questions like those in the NHIS 
or on an actual medical examination, it is a reasonable first approximation of 
the population with disabilities. More importantly, we argue below that it 
allows for consistent measurement of that population over the period of our 
analysis. 

Based on this question in the CPS, we find that, on average, between 1980 and 
1999 about 8 percent of the working-age population reported a work-limiting 
disability in any given year. Men were slightly more likely to report a 
disability than were women. During the 20-year period, an average of 8. 1 
percent of men reported having a disability compared to 7.5 percent of women. 
The complete set of values underlying these averages are listed in Appendix 
Table 1. Looking beyond the average rate of disability in the population, Figure 
1 shows the prevalence of disability by household size-adjusted income decile 
for three years in the data- 1981,1990, and 2000.*6 In each of these years, the 
prevalence of disability falls with higher values of household income. This 
relationship is consistent with the health-income gradient documented in other 
data sources (Daly et al. 1999; Robert and House 1996; Smith and Kington 1996). 

What is more important for our analysis is the fact that there is little 
difference in the prevalence of disability by income decile over time. This 
consistency implies that, measured by household size-adjusted income, the 
composition of the population of those with disabilities has remained relatively 
constant over the 20 years of our study. Moreover, it suggests that there have 
not been systematic changes in the way that working-age people with disabilities 
respond to the CPS work-limitation question and that this question can be used 
to monitor trends in the employment and household income among the working-age 
population with disabilities over time. 

To verify that the patterns we observe in the CPS data are not particular to 
that survey, we compare CPS prevalence statistics to those obtained from the 
NHIS. The sample period in our study excludes years before 1983 and after 1996 
due to major revisions in the NHIS survey instrument in 1983 and 1997. The work 
limitation question in the NHIS is: "Does any impairment or health problem NOW 
keep [person] from working at a job or business? Is [person] limited in the kind 
OR amount of work [person] can do because of any impairment?" A person with an 
affirmative response to either question is considered to have a work limitation. 
Figure 2 compares the prevalence of disability based on global work-limitations 
questions in the CPS and the NHIS over our sample period for working-age men and 
women. The average annual prevalence of disability among men over the period 
from 1983 through 1996 is 8.1 percent using the CPS-based estimates, and 10.3 
percent using the NHIS-based estimates. The average annual prevalence of 
disability among women over the same period is 7. 4 percent using the CPS-based 
estimates, and 10.4 percent using the NHIS-based estimates. As can be seen in 
Figure 2, the NHIS-based estimates of the prevalence of disability are higher 
than the CPS-based estimates for both men and women, in every year.*7 These 
differences are statistically significant in most years of our study.*8 

What is most important for our study, however, are not differences in the level 
of disability prevalence in the two data sets, but rather, the extent to which 
the trends in prevalence observed in the CPS are similar to those observed in 
the NHIS. To test whether the trends in disability prevalence between 1983 and 
1996 are statistically similar in both data sets, we regress the prevalence of 
disability in the CPS and NHIS (pooled sample) on a dummy variable, indicating 
whether the prevalence estimate comes from the CPS or NHIS data, a higher-order 
polynomial time-trend, and the interactions of the time trend and the indicator 
variables. We then test the joint significance of the interaction terms using an 
F-test. Based on this method, we find no difference, at conventional levels of 
significance, between the time-series patterns of disability prevalence for men 
and women in the two data sets. (See Appendix Table 4, columns 1-2, for the 
results of these tests and Burkhauser, Houtenville, and Nargis 2001 for a more 
complete description of our test methodology.) 

Key Economic Variables 

Employment. The analysis focuses on the role that employment plays in the 
household income of men and women with disabilities. Individuals who report that 
they work more than 52 hours per year are considered employed.*9 Individuals 
with fewer than 52 work hours annually are considered detached from the labor 
market.*10 Annual labor earnings include income from all market sources, 
including primary and secondary jobs and self-employment income. Based on this 
definition we calculate employment rates for those with and without disabilities 
for both the CPS and NHIS data. 

Household Income. Although we primarily are concerned with the economic status 
of individuals, we recognize that most people share resources with other 
coresident individuals and have access to income that does not flow directly to 
them (this is particularly important for spouses who do not work in the 
marketplace). Most researchers agree that the income-sharing unit should be 
broader than the individual, but there remains the issue of precisely who should 
be included in it. Some United States income distribution scholars have defined 
the unit as encompassing people related by blood or marriage who co-reside, i. 
e., the CPS family-sharing unit definition (see, for example, Karoly 1993 and 
Karoly and Burtless 1995). Others use the broader household-based common 
residence definition.*11 

In this study, we use the CPS household-sharing unit definition. We define 
household income as the sum of all pre-tax, post-transfer income received by 
individuals residing in a single residence.*12,*13 To account for the fact that 
$500 a week provides a higher standard of living for a single-person household 
than it does for individuals belonging to larger households, we adjust household 
income by an equivalence factor. Since there is no universally accepted scale, 
we assume an elasticity with respect to household size of 0.5.*14 In the CPS the 
income values are for the year prior to the survey year. Thus, we use CPS data 
for 1981, 1990, and 2000 to track income in 1980, 1989, and 1999. Because we are 
comparing income across years, we adjust income using the Consumer Price Index 
for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U); all income values are in 1998 dollars. Due to 
limitations in the NHIS income questions, we calculate household income only for 
the CPS sample.*15 

Government Transfer Receipt. An important component of income for many 
individuals with disabilities is government-provided transfers. Throughout this 
study transfers are classified in two ways: individually-based and disability-
related (disability benefits) and household-based and of any type or form 
(public transfers). Disability benefits include income from Workers' 
Compensation, the Social Security Disability Insurance Program, Veterans 
Benefits, and Supplemental Security Income. Public transfers include all cash 
benefits not specifically related to health. 

Adjusting for CPS Topcoding 
To maintain the anonymity of the survey respondents, the CPS topcodes most 
sources of 
income. Topcodes differ by income source and change over time (i. e., the 
portion of the 
distribution affected varies over time and across income sources.) To ensure 
that such changes in 
topcoding rules are not systematically affecting our results, we follow other 
CPS users (Daly and 
Valletta 2000; Karoly 1993; Karoly and Burtless 1995) and adjust the data. The 
adjustment we employ imposes the harshest annual topcode across all years for 
each income source, so that each source of income is topcoded at the same point 
in the distribution for each year in our sample.*16  

Sample Definition 
Our examination focuses on the experiences of working-age men and women aged 25 
to 61. This limited age range avoids confusing reductions in work or household 
income associated with disability with reductions or declines associated with 
retirement at older ages or initial transitions in and out of the labor force 
related to job shopping at younger ages. Men and women in the Armed Forces are 
excluded from our analysis. With these sample restrictions we have an average of 
72,000 working-age men and women in the CPS and 50,000 working-age men and women 
in the NHIS. The sample of respondents with disabilities averages 9, 500 in the 
CPS and 5,000 in the NHIS. All of our analysis are weighted by the individual 
sampling weights provided by the respective surveys. 

Business Cycle Dating 
To trace economic outcomes of people with disabilities over the business cycle 
we focus on three years representing peak or near peak points- 1980, 1989, and 
1999- and two years representing trough points- 1982 and 1991. An ideal analysis 
would make peak to peak comparisons (1979, 1989, and the next business cycle 
peak). However, data constraints limit the choice of years compared to 1980 (the 
first year of data with disability information), 1989 (the peak of the 1980s 
business cycle), and 1999 (the latest year of data available). 

III. Economic Outcomes of People with Disabilities over the Business Cycle 

Employment 
Business cycles have a powerful effect on household income because they 
forcefully reduce employment. Table 1 shows the sensitivity of employment rates 
to economic fluctuations over the past 20 years for working-age men and women 
with and without disabilities.*17  As the table shows, during the 1980s the 
employment of men with and without disabilities was procyclical, falling with 
recession and rising with recovery. In 1980, the first year the economy began to 
slow, employment rates of men with and without disabilities were relatively 
high- 42.6 percent and 96. 7 percent, respectively. Employment for men with and 
without disabilities declined as the economy moved through a recession, 
declining by about 2 percent for each group. Economic recovery once again 
boosted employment rates among men, particularly those with disabilities. 
Between 1982 and 1989, the employment rate among men with disabilities rose 5. 1 
percent, surpassing the 1980 peak. Tests for differences in the levels and 
trends in employment between men with and without disabilities during the 1980s 
show a significant difference in the level of employment between men with and 
without disabilities, but no significant difference in the trends.*18 

In the 1990s, the employment experiences of men with and without disabilities 
began to diverge. For men without disabilities, the familiar procyclical pattern 
continued; employment fell as the economy moved into recession in the early 
1990s but rebounded over the next seven years of economic growth (1992 to 1999). 
By 1999, the last year of available CPS data, the employment of men without 
disabilities was near its 1989 peak level. In contrast, the employment pattern 
of men with disabilities was quite different over the 1990s. Employment rates 
among men with disabilities fell as the economy moved into recession, but then 
continued to fall during the expansion, when job growth was substantial and the 
employment of men without disabilities was rising. By 1999 the employment rate 
of working-age men with disabilities had not only failed to return to its 1989 
level but was substantially below its 1992 trough year level. Overall, between 
1989 and 1999, the employment rate of men with disabilities fell from 43. 9 to 
33. 9 percent, a decline of more than 25 percent. Consistent with Table 1, 
separate statistical tests show significant differences in both the level of 
employment between men with and without disabilities and in their trends. (See 
Appendix Table 5 for these results.) 

The story for women is similar. The employment of women with and without 
disabilities was constant in the early recession years of the 1980s business 
cycle and then increased substantially through the growth years that followed. 
However, as was the case for men, over the 1990s business cycle the employment 
experience of women with and without disabilities began to diverge. For women 
without disabilities, employment remained near its 1989 peak through the 
recession years of the early 1990s and grew thereafter. In contrast, the 
employment rate of women with disabilities fell as the economy moved into 
recession and continued to fall even over the recovery period. Statistical tests 
confirm that while there is a significant difference in the level of employment 
rates over the entire period, there is no significant difference in the 
employment trends for women with and without disabilities in the 1980s. In 
contrast, and as for the sample of men, there is a significant difference in 
employment trends in the 1990s. (See Appendix Table 5.) 

To ensure that these employment patterns are not an artifact of the CPS data or 
a result of changes in the composition of the population with disabilities, we 
perform two robustness checks. To address the first concern we compare the CPS 
employment trends to those found in the NHIS. In general, the trends in the NHIS 
data for the period 1983-1996 reinforce the employment trends reported for men 
and women with disabilities found in the CPS. That is, employment rates for men 
and women with disabilities were procyclical during the 1980s and 
countercyclical during the 1990s expansion. Testing for differences in 
employment trends across the two data sources we find no significant differences 
in the estimated trends from the CPS and NHIS. (See Appendix Table 4, columns 3-
4, for results from these tests.) 
To test for the possibility that changes in the composition of the population 
reporting a work disability are driving the results, we perform a simple shift-
share analysis, controlling first for changes in age, race, education, and 
household size, and then controlling for these demographic changes and changes 
in employment rates. The results of these analyses, reported in Appendix Table 
6, show that if the composition of the population with disabilities was the same 
in 1999 as it was in 1980 or 1989 (in terms of age, race, education, and 
household size), the economic outcomes for those with disabilities would be 
worse than the ones actually found in the data. This suggests that our results 
are not an artifact of demographic shifts, but rather the result of changing 
outcomes for those with disabilities. 

Household Income and Its Sources 
For most people of working age, labor income is the principal source of 
household income. Thus, changes in the employment patterns of working-age men 
and women with disabilities potentially have a large impact on both their 
absolute and relative economic well-being. Table 2 shows median household size-
adjusted income for men and women with and without disabilities.*19 The median 
man with and without a disability gained over the 1980s business cycle. However, 
for men with disabilities, the gains were much less pronounced. For example, 
between 1980 and 1989, household size-adjusted income for the median man with a 
disability increased by 1. 0 percent, compared to an increase of 9. 8 percent 
for the median man without a disability. 

In general, the same trends in median household size-adjusted income observed 
during the 1980s hold for the 1990s. The median man with and without 
disabilities gained during the period, but men without disabilities gained far 
more. The trends for the median woman with disabilities were similar in the 
1980s. During the 1990s, growth in household income for the median woman with a 
disability kept pace with that of the median woman without a disability. 

The contrast between the trends in employment and household income among those 
with disabilities suggest that the households of working-age people with 
disabilities relied far more on nonlabor sources of income during the 1990s than 
during the 1980s. Table 3 provides a more detailed look at the various sources 
of household income of our four groups and how they changed over the past two 
decades. Mean real household income is divided into five components- own labor 
earnings, the labor earnings of other household members, own public  disability 
transfers, all other sources of public transfers, and all other sources of 
household income. The sum of the means of these five income sources equals mean 
household income.*20 

There was a general decline in the share of household income contributed by men 
over the entire period, but the decline in the share contributed by men with 
disabilities during the 1990s business cycle far exceeded the slight decline by 
men without disabilities. For example, the share of household income contributed 
by men without disabilities fell from 66. 7 percent in 1980 to 62.3 percent in 
1989, a decline of 6.8 percent. Between 1989 and 1999 there was very little 
change in their share. The patterns for men with disabilities are quite 
different. Between 1980 and 1989 the share of household income contributed by 
men with disabilities fell from 23. 0 percent in 1980 to 22.2 percent in 1989, a 
decline of 3.5 percent, or about one-half of the percentage drop experienced by 
men without disabilities. In contrast, between 1989 and 1999 the earnings share 
of household income contributed by men with disabilities fell 26. 5 percent, to 
17. 0 percent. 

As the share of household income coming from the labor earnings of men with and 
without disabilities declined, the share coming from labor earnings of other 
family members increased. However, the increase in the share of labor earnings 
coming from other family members was larger in the households of men without 
disabilities than of men with disabilities. As a result, over the past 20 years 
the households of men with disabilities have become increasingly reliant on non-
labor sources of income. 

The results for women are somewhat different. Over the 1980s business cycle, the 
share of household income contributed by women with and without disabilities 
increased substantially. This trend continued over the 1990s business cycle for 
women without disabilities, but reversed for women with disabilities. As a 
result, in 1999 earnings of women without disabilities accounted for 38.2 
percent of their household income; for women with disabilities this share was 
14.1 percent. 

As the share of household income from labor earnings declined for men and women 
with disabilities, the share coming from public disability-related transfers 
increased. This substitution is particularly evident in the 1990s. Among men 
with disabilities, the share of household income coming from public disability 
transfers increased by 35. 1 percent between 1989 and 1999; women with 
disabilities experienced a similar increase, 31. 6 percent during the period.*21 
The share of household income coming from all other public transfers declined 
steadily during the 1990s for all four groups. All other sources of household 
income fell during the peak-to-trough years in the 1990s and rose thereafter for 
all groups. However, over the entire period these sources fell for all groups. 

IV. Gains in Household Income across the Distribution 
Figure 3 looks behind the profile of the median man and woman with and without a 
disability- examined in Table 2- and reports changes in real household size-
adjusted income across the entire income distribution. Figure 3 shows the dollar 
difference in real household size- adjusted income by percentile of the income 
distribution for men and women with and without disabilities between 1980 and 
1989, and between 1989 and 1999. Each line cuts the horizontal axis at the 
percentile at which real income in one-year equals real income in the other. 
Values above (below) the horizontal axis show that mean real income in that 
percentile increased (decreased) over the period. 

In contrast to the population of men without disabilities, which gained across 
nearly the entire income distribution over both business cycles, within the 
population of men with disabilities the experiences varied with the level of 
household income and across business cycles (Figure 3, panels A and B). In both 
periods examined, the lower part of the household size-adjusted distribution 
experienced only modest changes in income, with small declines during the 1980s 
and small gains during the 1990s. Declines in own labor earnings in this part of 
the distribution were for the most part offset by increases in disability-
related transfers. The primary difference between the two periods for the 
population of men with disabilities occurred in the upper half of the income 
distribution. Over the 1980s business cycle all percentiles in the upper part of 
the distribution gained. In contrast, over the 1990s business cycle, incomes in 
the middle of the distribution (between the 50 th and 65 th percentiles) 
remained flat, exhibiting no more growth than those in the bottom half of the 
income distribution. It is not until the 75 th percentile and above that income 
increased by the same magnitude as in the 1980s. Declines in own labor earnings 
in the middle of the distribution during the 1990s were only partially offset by 
increases in disability-related transfer income. 

We find the same patterns for women with and without disabilities (Figure 3, 
panels C and D). Women without disabilities gained across the entire 
distribution in both business cycles. For  women with disabilities the lower 
part of the distribution experienced almost no change in income over the 1980s 
business cycle, while the top 50 percent of the distribution gained. In 
contrast, during the 1990s business cycle, incomes rose at all levels of the 
distribution, although by relatively small amounts. Only those in the top 25 th 
percentile gained, and for the most part their gains were modest. 

V. Conclusions and Issues for Future Research 

We examined the relative responsiveness of employment and household income of 
working-age men and women to business cycle fluctuations over the past two 
decades. Overall, the results indicate that during the 1980s, economic outcomes 
for those with and without disabilities were procyclical, falling during 
recessionary years and rising during years of expansion. In contrast, the 
employment of working-age men and women with disabilities fell continuously over 
the 1990s. While a substantial increase in disability transfer income in the 
1990s replaced a significant fraction of the lost labor earnings, it did not 
prevent most of the households of men and women with disabilities from losing 
economic ground relative to the rest of the population. 

Recognizing that CPS data are not the ideal source of information about persons 
with disabilities, we checked the robustness of our results using data from the 
NHIS. While disability prevalence and employment rates found in the CPS data for 
this population are significantly different from those found in the NHIS data, 
there is no significant difference between the trends in prevalence or 
employment found in these data sources. Hence we argue that the unprecedented 
decline in the importance of work as a source of household income among   
working-age men and women with disabilities in the 1990s is not an artifact of 
the CPS data but a real and important phenomenon. 
These results suggest that recent studies documenting the decline in the 
relative employment of men with disabilities in the 1990s cannot be dismissed 
out of hand. So far, two major hypotheses have been proposed to explain this 
decline. Acemoglu and Angrist (1998), using CPS data from 1988 to 1997, report 
employment patterns similar to those reported here and argue that this decline 
was caused by unintended consequences of the passage of the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA).*22  Bound and Waidmann (2000), using CPS data 
from 1989 to 1999, also report employment patterns similar to those reported 
here but argue that increases in Social Security Disability Insurance benefit 
rolls can account for all of the decline in employment of working-age men with 
disabilities during this period. So far, however, no studies have been able to 
satisfactorily disentangle the impact of demand side factors related to the 
passage of the ADA or changes in the mix of jobs in the economy in the 1990s 
from supply side factors related to changes in the ease of access to SSDI and 
SSI benefits or to a reduction in the share of jobs that provide private health 
insurance, which would discourage work among the population with disabilities. 
Pinning down the magnitudes of the various effects is the next necessary step to 
fully understanding the causes of the recent decline in employment among those 
with disabilities and developing policies targeted at reversing this trend. 

Endnotes

1. Although the NHIS survey covers a larger number of years, 1957 through 2000, 
we  restrict our analysis to the subset of surveys with consistently asked 
questions on work limitations. 

2. Mashaw and Reno (1996) argue that the appropriateness of any definition of 
disability depends on the purpose for which it is used. They document over 20 
definitions of disability used for purposes of entitlement to public or private 
income transfers, government services, or statistical analysis. 

3. Researchers have been cautious in using such global self-reported health 
measures because they are subjective and can vary from individual to individual. 
More importantly, health responses may not be independent of the economic 
variables being examined. For a review of these issues see Bound and Burkhauser 
(1999). 

4. Kirchner argues that self-perception within the population with disabilities 
changed with the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act, making people 
with disabilities less likely to describe themselves as having a work-limiting 
condition. Below, we test whether such changes in reporting behavior are 
reflected in changes in the composition of the population with disabilities over 
time. We also examine whether changes in reporting behavior of the type 
described by Kirchner are consistent with the outcomes observed in the CPS data. 

5. Small changes were made to the CPS question on disability in 1994. However, 
in other work we argue that they do not materially affect our results. See 
Burkhauser, Daly, and Houtenville (2001, the Appendix) for a description of the 
changes and a discussion of there effects on disability prevalence. 

6. The measure of household size-adjusted income used in Figure 1 is described 
in detail in the variable definition section. 

7. One explanation for the difference in the level of reported disability 
prevalence in the CPS and NHIS is the location of the work-limitations question 
in the two surveys. In the CPS, this question is asked in a section of the 
survey focusing on employment; in the NHIS it is asked as part of the basic 
health and demographic "core" questionnaire. To the extent that individuals 
already focused on questions about their health would be more apt to disclose 
any work-limitations, the NHIS would pick up a higher rate of reported 
disability. 

8. See Appendix Table 1 for the complete set of prevalence rates (and their 
standard errors) expressed in the figure. Statistical tests were t-tests of the 
differences in two proportions. 

9. Annual hours are calculated by multiplying the number of weeks worked by 
average hours worked per week. While our annual definition of employment is 
somewhat arbitrary, our results are not sensitive to the hours cutoff we chose. 

10. This category includes individuals who are out of the labor force and 
individuals who are long-term unemployed (i. e., did not work during the 
measurement year). 
11. Atkinson, Rainwater, and Smeeding (1995) and Burkhauser, Crews and Daly 
(1997) argue that using the family definition, rather than the less restrictive 
household-based definition, produces a bleaker picture of the income 
distribution because it treats a larger number of individuals as single-person 
households even when they reside with and share the benefits of living with 
others. 

12. In the CPS data, income includes all cash income received from private and 
public 
sources. 

13. The CPS data do not provide net-of-tax income information. 

14. An equivalence scale with an elasticity of 1 (the per capita scale) implies 
no economies of scale in shared living. An equivalence scale with an elasticity 
of 0 (i. e., no adjustments for household size) implies an infinite number of 
individuals can live equally well on a given household income. An elasticity of 
0.5 falls between these two options and also is close to the assumptions about 
economies of scale implicit in the U. S. Bureau of Census poverty scales 
(Burkhauser, Smeeding, and Merz 1996).

15 The NHIS income questions ask respondents to identify the income bracket for 
their household. While such bracketed information provides a rough approximation 
of the economic well-being of a household it does not allow us to make precise 
calculations of changes in household income over time or to compare the NHIS 
income values to those from the more detailed CPS. (See Burkhauser, Houtenville, 
and Nargis (2001) for a discussion of these issues and an attempt to impute 
household income values for NHIS sample members.)

16. For some sources of income, the level of detail changes over time. In this 
case, we aggregate the detailed data such that we have consistently defined 
variables over time. We impose the topcode solution described above on the 
aggregated sources by assuming the topcode is the sum of the topcodes imposed on 
each of the component sources.

17. Employment rates (and standard errors) for each year of our sample are 
reported in Appendix Table 2. 
18. Tests performed were analogous to those conducted for differences in trends 
in disability prevalence across data sources (i. e., differences in levels were 
tested using t-tests of the differences in two proportions; differences in 
trends were tested using a simple regression model of employment and a higher-
order polynomial time-trend.) Results of the trend tests are reported in 
Appendix Table 5.

19. Estimates for each year of the sample are reported in Appendix Table 3.

20. All negative sources of income were converted to zero in the calculation of 
income 
shares. Means rather than medians were used and no adjustments were made in 
household size to allow the individual sources of income reported in Table 3 to 
sum to the total. 

21. Elsewhere we show that the increase in real public disability transfers over 
the 1990s came primarily from rapid growth in the value of SSI and SSDI 
benefits; in contrast, Workers' Compensation and Veterans' Benefits fell in real 
terms over the period (Burkhauser, Daly, and Houtenville 2001).

22. DeLeire (2000) using data from the Survey of Income and Program 
Participation for the years 1990-1994 reports similar findings and proposes the 
same explanation. Kruse and Schur (2000) use these same data but finds that 
employment trends of working-age men with disabilities are sensitive to one's 
choice of disability measure.


References 

Acemoglu, Daron and Joshua Angrist. 1998. "Consequences of Employment 
Protection? The 
Case of the Americans with Disabilities Act." NBER Working Paper No. W6670. 
Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research. 

Atkinson, Anthony, B., Lee Rainwater and Timothy M. Smeeding. 1995. Income 
Distribution in 
OECD Countries: Evidence from the Luxembourg Income Study (LIS), Social Policy 
Studies No. 18. Paris: OECD. 

Blackburn, McKinley and David Bloom. 1989. "Income Inequality, Business Cycles, 
and Female 
Labor Supply." In Research on Economic Inequality, Volume 1. Greenwich, CT and 
London: JAI Press, pp. 327-342. 

Blank, Rebecca and David Card. 1993. "Poverty, Income Distribution, and Growth: 
Are They 
Still Connected?" Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, Vol. 2. Washington, DC: 
Brookings Institution Press, pp. 285-339. 

Bound, John and Richard V. Burkhauser. 2000. "Economic Analysis of Transfer 
Programs 
Targeted on People with Disabilities." In Handbook of Labor Economics, Vol. 3. 
Edited 
by Orley Ashenfelter and David Card. New York, Amsterdam?: Elsevier Science, pp. 
3417-3528. 

Bound, John and Timothy Waidmann. 2000. "Accounting for Recent Declines in 
Employment 
Rates among the Working-Aged Disabled." NBER Working Paper No. W7975. 
Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research. 

Burkhauser, Richard V., Mary C. Daly, and Andrew Houtenville. 2001. "How 
Working-Age 
People with Disabilities Fared over the 1990s Business Cycle." In Ensuring 
Health and 
Income Security for an Aging Workforce. Edited by P. Budetti, R. V. Burkhauser, 
J. 
Gregory, and A. Hunt. Kalamazoo, MI: W. E. Upjohn Institute for Employment 
Research, 
pp. 291-346. 

Burkhauser, Richard V. and Mary C. Daly. 1996. "Employment and Economic Well-
Being 
Following the Onset of a Disability: The Role for Public Policy." In Disability, 
Work, and 
Cash Benefits, Jerry Mashaw, Virginia Reno, Richard V. Burkhauser, and Monroe 
Berkowitz, eds. Kalamazoo, MI: W. E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research, 
pp. 
59-102. 

Burkhauser, Richard V., Amy D. Crews, Mary C. Daly, and Stephen P. Jenkins. 
1999. "Testing 
the Significance of Income Distribution Changes over the 1980s Business Cycle: A 
Cross-National 
Comparison." Journal of Applied Econometrics 14, pp. 253-272. 

Burkhauser, Richard V. Amy D. Crews and Mary C. Daly. 1997. "Recounting Winners 
and 
Losers in the 1980s: A Critique of Income Distribution Measurement Methodology." 
Economics Letters 54 (May): 35-40. 

Burkhauser, Richard V., Andrew Houtenville, and Niger Nargis. 2001. "Comparisons 
of Time 
Trends from Two Data Sources." Economics of Disability Research Report No. 4. 
Ithaca, NY: Cornell University, Rehabilitation Research Center. 
22 
Business Cycles and People with Disabilities- 21 
Burkhauser, Richard V., Timothy M. Smeeding and Joachim Merz. 1996. "A Relative 
Inequality 
and Poverty in Germany and the United States Using Alternative Equivalency 
Scales." The 
Review of Income and Wealth 42( 4): 381-400. 

Daly, Mary C., Greg Duncan, Peggy McDonough, and David Williams. 1999 "Optimal 
Indicators of Socioeconomic Status for Health Research." Working Paper, 99-03. 
San 
Francisco: Federal Reserve Bank. 

Daly, Mary C. and Robert Valletta. 2000. "Inequality and Poverty in the United 
States: The 
Effects of Changing Family Behavior and Rising Wage Dispersion." Working Paper 
2000-06. San Francisco: Federal Reserve Bank. 

DeLeire, Thomas. 2000. "The Wage and Employment Effects of the Americans with 
Disabilities 
Act." Journal of Human Resources 35( 4): 693-715. 

Hoynes, Hilary. 2000. "The Employment, Earnings, and Income of Less Skilled 
Workers over 
the Business Cycle." NBER Working Paper 7188. Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of 
Economic Research. 

Kirchner, Corinne. 1996. "Looking Under the Street Lamp: Inappropriate Uses of 
Measures 
Just Because They are There." Journal of Disability Policy Studies 7( 1): 77-90. 

Karoly, Lynn A. 1993 "The Trend in Inequality Among Families, Individuals, and 
Workers in the 
United States: A Twenty-Five Year Perspective." In Uneven Tides: Rising 
Inequality in 
America, edited by Sheldon Danziger and Peter Gottschalk. New York: Russell Sage 
Foundation. 

Karoly, Lynn A. and Gary Burtless. 1995. "Demographic Change, Rising Earning 
Inequality, and 
the Distribution of Personal Well-Being, 1959-1989." Demography 32( 3): 379-406. 

Kruse, Douglas and Lisa Schur. 2000. "Employment of People with Disabilities 
Following the 
ADA." Mimeo, School of Management and Labor Relations. New Brunswick, NJ: 
Rutgers University. 

Mashaw, Jerry and Virginia Reno. 1996. Balancing Security and Opportunity: the 
Challenge of 
Disability Income Policy. Report of the Disability Policy Panel, National 
Academy of 
Social Insurance, Washington, DC. 

Myers, Robert. 1982. "Why Do People Retire from Work Early?" Aging and Work 5: 
83-91. 
Myers, Robert. 1983. "Further Controversies on Early Retirement Study." Aging 
and Work 6: 
105-109. 

Robert, Stephanie and James S. House. 1996. "SES Differentials in Health by Age 
and 
Alternative Indicators of SES." Journal of Aging and Health 8( 3): 359-388. 

Smith, James P. and Raynard Kington. 1996. "Demographic and Economic Correlates 
of Health 
in Old Age." Document Number DRU-1316-NIA. Santa Monica, CA: RAND. 

Figure 1. Disability Prevalence by Household Size-Adjusted Income Decile
Source: Authors' calculations based on the March Current Population Survey, 
1981, 1990, 2000.

Figure 2. Disability Prevalence Among Working Age Individuals
Source: Authors'calculations based on the March Current Population Survey, 1981-
2000,
and the National Health Interview Survey 1983-1996.

Figure 3. Change in Household Size- Adjusted Real Income, 1980- 1989, and 1989- 
1998, by Percentile
Source: Authors' calculations based on March CPS, 1981, 1990, 2000.

Table 1: Employment Rates of Working-Age Men and Women by disabilities Status       
Men with disabilities:          
Work Year 1980 Employment Rate: 42.6 Change Years 1980-1982 Percentage Change: -2.1    
Work Year 1982 Employment Rate: 41.7 Change Years 1982-1989 Percentage Change: 5.1    
Work Year 1989 Employment Rate: 43.9 Change Years 1980-1989 Percentage Change: 3    
Work Year 1992 Employment Rate: 41.6 Change Years 1989-1992 Percentage Change: -5.4    
Work Year 1999 Employment Rate: 33.9 Change Years 1992-1999 Percentage Change: -20.4  Change 
Years 1989-1999 Percentage Change: -25.7    
           
Men without disabilities:          
Work Year 1980 Employment Rate: 96.7 Change Years 1980-1982 Percentage Change: -1.8    
Work Year 1982 Employment Rate: 95 Change Years 1982-1989 Percentage Change: 1    
Work Year 1989 Employment Rate: 96 Change Years 1980-1989 Percentage Change: -0.7    
Work Year 1992 Employment Rate: 94.7 Change Years 1989-1992 Percentage Change: -1.4    
Work Year 1999 Employment Rate: 95.1 Change Years 1992-1999 Percentage Change: 0.4    
Change Years 1989-1999 Percentage Change: -0.9    
           
Women with disabilities:          
Work Year 1980 Employment Rate: 28.5 Change Years 1980-1982 Percentage Change: -3    
Work Year 1982 Employment Rate: 29.3 Change Years 1982-1989 Percentage Change: 4.5    
Work Year 1989 Employment Rate: 37.4 Change Years 1980-1989 Percentage Change: 1.5    
Work Year 1992 Employment Rate: 34.2 Change Years 1989-1992 Percentage Change: -10.6    
Work Year 1999 Employment Rate: 33.3 Change Years 1992-1999 Percentage Change: 17.9    
Change Years 1989-1999 Percentage Change: 7.3    
           
Women without disabilities:          
Work Year 1980 Employment Rate: 69.2 Change Years 1980-1982 Percentage Change: -3.3    
Work Year 1982 Employment Rate: 69.2 Change Years 1982-1989 Percentage Change: 14    
Work Year 1989 Employment Rate: 77 Change Years 1980-1989 Percentage Change: 10.7    
Work Year 1992 Employment Rate: 77.6 Change Years 1989-1992 Percentage Change: -3.4    
Work Year 1999 Employment Rate: 81.5 Change Years 1992-1999 Percentage Change: 13.7    
Change Years 1989-1999 Percentage Change: 10.3    
Source: Authors' calculations based on the March Current Population Survey, 1981-2000.       
           
           
Table 2: Median Household Size-Adjusted Real Income of Working-Age Men and Women by disabilities 
Status      
Men with disabilities:          
Income Year 1980 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 16,638 
Change Years 1980-1982 -5.1     
Income Year 1982 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 15,811 
Change Years 1982-1989 6.1     
Income Year 1989 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 16,813 
Change Years 1980-1989 1     
Income Year 1992 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 15,754 
Change Years 1989-1992 -6.5     
Income Year 1999 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 16,969 
Change Years 1992-1999 7.4     
Change Years 1989-1999 0.9     
           
Men without disabilities:          
Income Year 1980 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 28,909 
Change Years 1980-1982 -3.9     
Income Year 1982 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 27,806 
Change Years 1982-1989 13.7     
Income Year 1989 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 31,876 
Change Years 1980-1989 9.8     
Income Year 1992 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 30,240 
Change Years 1989-1992 -5.3     
Income Year 1999 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 34,799 
Change Years 1992-1999 14     
Change Years 1989-1999 8.8     
           
Women with disabilities:          
Income Year 1980 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 14,769
Change Years 1980-1982 -3     
Income Year 1982 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 14,333 
Change Years 1982-1989 4.5     
Income Year 1989 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 14,987 
Change Years 1980-1989 1.5     
Income Year 1992 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 13,482 
Change Years 1989-1992 -10.6     
Income Year 1999 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 16,127 
Change Years 1992-1999 17.9     
Change Years 1989-1999 7.3     
           
Women without disabilities:          
Income Year 1980 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 25,920 
Change Years 1980-1982 -3.3     
Income Year 1982 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 25,083 
Change Years 1982-1989 14     
Income Year 1989 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 28,862 
Change Years 1980-1989 10.7     
Income Year 1992 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 27,886 
Change Years 1989-1992 -3.4     
Income Year 1999 Median Household Income (1998 dollars) 31,996 
Change Years 1992-1999 13.7     
Change Years 1989-1999 10.3     
Source: Authors' calculations based on the March Current Population Survey, 1981-2000.       
           
Table 3: Share of Household Income by Source for Working-Age Men and Women by disabilities Status       
Men with disabilities:          
Percent Shares          
Income Year 1980 Own Earnings 23 Earnings of Other Household Members 25.8 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 15.1 All Other Public Transfers 20.9 All Other Household Income 14.2
Income Year 1982 Own Earnings 21.6 Earnings of Other Household Members 26.2 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 14.8 All Other Public Transfers 22 All Other Household Income 14.5
Income Year 1989 Own Earnings 22.2 Earnings of Other Household Members 28.2 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 16 All Other Public Transfers 19.9 All Other Household Income 13
Income Year 1992 Own Earnings 19.1 Earnings of Other Household Members 29.4 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 18.7 All Other Public Transfers 20.6 All Other Household Income 11.6
Income Year 1999 Own Earnings 17 Earnings of Other Household Members 30.1 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 22.8 All Other Public Transfers 16.4 All Other Household Income 12.1
Percentage Changes          
Change Years 1980-82 Own Earnings -6.3 Earnings of Other Household Members 1.5 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers -2 All Other Public Transfers 5.1 All Other Household Income 2.1
Change Years 1982-89 Own Earnings 2.7 Earnings of Other Household Members 7.4 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 7.8 All Other Public Transfers -10 All Other Household Income -10.9
Change Years 1980-89 Own Earnings -3.5 Earnings of Other Household Members 8.9 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 5.8 All Other Public Transfers -4.9 All Other Household Income -8.8
Change Years 1989-92 Own Earnings -15 Earnings of Other Household Members 4.2 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 15.6 All Other Public Transfers 3.5 All Other Household Income -11.4
Change Years 1992-99 Own Earnings -11.6 Earnings of Other Household Members 2.4 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 19.8 All Other Public Transfers -22.7 All Other Household Income 4.2
Change Years 1989-99 Own Earnings -26.5 Earnings of Other Household Members 6.5 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 35.1 All Other Public Transfers -19.3 All Other Household Income -7.2
           
Men without disabilities:          
Percent Shares          
Income Year 1980 Own Earnings 66.7 Earnings of Other Household Members 22.6 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 0.2 All Other Public Transfers 3.9 All Other Household Income 6.3
Income Year 1982 Own Earnings 63.4 Earnings of Other Household Members 24 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 0.2 All Other Public Transfers 5.1 All Other Household Income 7
Income Year 1989 Own Earnings 62.3 Earnings of Other Household Members 27.4 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 0.2 All Other Public Transfers 3.4 All Other Household Income 6.4
Income Year 1992 Own Earnings 60.2 Earnings of Other Household Members 28.3 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 0.3 All Other Public Transfers 5 All Other Household Income 5.9
Income Year 1999 Own Earnings 61.3 Earnings of Other Household Members 28.8 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 0.4 All Other Public Transfers 3.1 All Other Household Income 6
Percentage Changes          
Change Years 1980-82 Own Earnings -5.1 Earnings of Other Household Members 6 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 0 All Other Public Transfers 26.7 All Other Household Income 10.5
Change Years 1982-89 Own Earnings -1.8 Earnings of Other Household Members 13.2 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 0 All Other Public Transfers -40 All Other Household Income -9
Change Years 1980-89 Own Earnings -6.8 Earnings of Other Household Members 19.2 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 0 All Other Public Transfers -13.7 All Other Household Income 1.6
Change Years 1989-92 Own Earnings -3.4 Earnings of Other Household Members 3.2 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 40 All Other Public Transfers 38.1 All Other Household Income -8.1
Change Years 1992-99 Own Earnings 1.8 Earnings of Other Household Members 1.8 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 28.6 All Other Public Transfers -46.9 All Other Household Income 1.7
Change Years 1989-99 Own Earnings -1.6 Earnings of Other Household Members 5 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 66.7 All Other Public Transfers -9.2 All Other Household Income -6.5
           
Women with Disabilities:          
Percent Shares          
Income Year 1980 Own Earnings 9.9 Earnings of Other Household Members 40.5 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 13.7 All Other Public Transfers 22.1 All Other Household Income 13.2
Income Year 1982 Own Earnings 10.7 Earnings of Other Household Members 39.9 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 13.9 All Other Public Transfers 22.4 All Other Household Income 12.3
Income Year 1989 Own Earnings 14.3 Earnings of Other Household Members 36.6 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 14.9 All Other Public Transfers 21.7 All Other Household Income 11.8
Income Year 1992 Own Earnings 12.8 Earnings of Other Household Members 35.7 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 17.8 All Other Public Transfers 21.4 All Other Household Income 10.8
Income Year 1999 Own Earnings 14.1 Earnings of Other Household Members 36.3 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 20.5 All Other Public Transfers 15.6 All Other Household Income 12.2
Percentage Changes          
Change Years 1980-82 Own Earnings 7.8 Earnings of Other Household Members -1.5 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 1.4 All Other Public Transfers 1.3 All Other Household Income -7.1
Change Years 1982-89 Own Earnings 28.8 Earnings of Other Household Members -8.6 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 6.9 All Other Public Transfers -3.2 All Other Household Income -4.1
Change Years 1980-89 Own Earnings 36.4 Earnings of Other Household Members -10.1 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 8.4 All Other Public Transfers -1.8 All Other Household Income -11.2
Change Years 1989-92 Own Earnings -11.1 Earnings of Other Household Members -2.5 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 17.7 All Other Public Transfers -1.4 All Other Household Income -8.8
Change Years 1992-99 Own Earnings 9.7 Earnings of Other Household Members 1.7 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 14.1 All Other Public Transfers -31.4 All Other Household Income 12.2
Change Years 1989-99 Own Earnings -1.4 Earnings of Other Household Members -0.8 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 31.6 All Other Public Transfers -32.7 All Other Household Income 3.3
           
Women without disabilities:          
Percent Shares          
Income Year 1980 Own Earnings 28.2 Earnings of Other Household Members 55 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 0.9 All Other Public Transfers 7.4 All Other Household Income 8.2
Income Year 1982 Own Earnings 28.9 Earnings of Other Household Members 52.8 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 0.9 All Other Public Transfers 8.2 All Other Household Income 8.9
Income Year 1989 Own Earnings 33.6 Earnings of Other Household Members 51.1 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 0.8 All Other Public Transfers 6.1 All Other Household Income 7.9
Income Year 1992 Own Earnings 35.4 Earnings of Other Household Members 48.8 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 0.8 All Other Public Transfers 7.4 All Other Household Income 7.2
Income Year 1999 Own Earnings 38.2 Earnings of Other Household Members 48.9 Own Public disabilities 
Transfers 0.7 All Other Public Transfers 4.5 All Other Household Income 7.3
Percentage Changes          
Change Years 1980-82 Own Earnings 2.5 Earnings of Other Household Members -4.1 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 0 All Other Public Transfers 10.3 All Other Household Income 8.2
Change Years 1982-89 Own Earnings 15 Earnings of Other Household Members -3.3 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers -11.8 All Other Public Transfers 29.4 All Other Household Income -11.9
Change Years 1980-89 Own Earnings 17.5 Earnings of Other Household Members -7.4 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers -11.8 All Other Public Transfers 19.3 All Other Household Income -3.7
Change Years 1989-92 Own Earnings 5.2 Earnings of Other Household Members -4.6 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers 0 All Other Public Transfers 19.3 All Other Household Income -9.3
Change Years 1992-99 Own Earnings 7.6 Earnings of Other Household Members 0.2 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers -13.3 All Other Public Transfers 48.7 All Other Household Income 1.4
Change Years 1989-99 Own Earnings 12.8 Earnings of Other Household Members -4.4 Own Public 
disabilities Transfers -13.3 All Other Public Transfers 30.2 All Other Household Income -7.9
Source: Authors' calculations based on the March Current Population Survey, 1981-2000.       

Appendix Table 1. Prevalence of Disability Among Working-Age Men and Women in the Current Population 
Survey (CPS) and National Health Interview Survey (NHIS)
Men:           
Year 1981 CPS Esimate: 8.2 Standard Error: 0.139 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1982 CPS Esimate: 8.2 Standard Error: 0.147 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1983 CPS Esimate: 7.8 Standard Error: 0.142 NHIS Estimate: 10.9 Standard Error: 0.211
Year 1984 CPS Esimate: 8 Standard Error: 0.144 NHIS Estimate: 10.2 Standard Error: 0.204
Year 1985 CPS Esimate: 8.2 Standard Error: 0.146 NHIS Estimate: 10.2 Standard Error: 0.225
Year 1986 CPS Esimate: 8.3 Standard Error: 0.147 NHIS Estimate: 10.2 Standard Error: 0.261
Year 1987 CPS Esimate: 8.2 Standard Error: 0.147 NHIS Estimate: 9.1 Standard Error: 0.179
Year 1988 CPS Esimate: 7.7 Standard Error: 0.142 NHIS Estimate: 9.7 Standard Error: 0.185
Year 1989 CPS Esimate: 7.6 Standard Error: 0.146 NHIS Estimate: 9.9 Standard Error: 0.192
Year 1990 CPS Esimate: 7.9 Standard Error: 0.141 NHIS Estimate: 9.6 Standard Error: 0.187
Year 1991 CPS Esimate: 7.7 Standard Error: 0.14 NHIS Estimate: 9.8 Standard Error: 0.19
Year 1992 CPS Esimate: 8.1 Standard Error: 0.144 NHIS Estimate: 10.9 Standard Error: 0.196
Year 1993 CPS Esimate: 8.4 Standard Error: 0.146 NHIS Estimate: 11.4 Standard Error: 0.214
Year 1994 CPS Esimate: 8.8 Standard Error: 0.152 NHIS Estimate: 10.7 Standard Error: 0.199
Year 1995 CPS Esimate: 8.5 Standard Error: 0.15 NHIS Estimate: 10.9 Standard Error: 0.214
Year 1996 CPS Esimate: 8.2 Standard Error: 0.158 NHIS Estimate: 10.5 Standard Error: 0.266
Year 1997 CPS Esimate: 8.3 Standard Error: 0.157 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1998 CPS Esimate: 7.8 Standard Error: 0.152 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1999 CPS Esimate: 8 Standard Error: 0.153 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 2000 CPS Esimate: 8 Standard Error: 0.152 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Women:           
Year 1981 CPS Esimate: 7.6 Standard Error: 0.129 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1982 CPS Esimate: 7.6 Standard Error: 0.136 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1983 CPS Esimate: 7.2 Standard Error: 0.131 NHIS Estimate: 10.7 Standard Error: 0.197
Year 1984 CPS Esimate: 7.2 Standard Error: 0.132 NHIS Estimate: 10.7 Standard Error: 0.197
Year 1985 CPS Esimate: 7.5 Standard Error: 0.133 NHIS Estimate: 10.4 Standard Error: 0.213
Year 1986 CPS Esimate: 7.2 Standard Error: 0.132 NHIS Estimate: 9.9 Standard Error: 0.247
Year 1987 CPS Esimate: 7.2 Standard Error: 0.132 NHIS Estimate: 9.7 Standard Error: 0.177
Year 1988 CPS Esimate: 6.7 Standard Error: 0.128 NHIS Estimate: 9.6 Standard Error: 0.176
Year 1989 CPS Esimate: 6.8 Standard Error: 0.133 NHIS Estimate: 10.1 Standard Error: 0.184
Year 1990 CPS Esimate: 7 Standard Error: 0.128 NHIS Estimate: 9.6 Standard Error: 0.177
Year 1991 CPS Esimate: 7.2 Standard Error: 0.13 NHIS Estimate: 10 Standard Error: 0.181
Year 1992 CPS Esimate: 7.2 Standard Error: 0.131 NHIS Estimate: 10.7 Standard Error: 0.18
Year 1993 CPS Esimate: 7.2 Standard Error: 0.131 NHIS Estimate: 11.4 Standard Error: 0.203
Year 1994 CPS Esimate: 8 Standard Error: 0.139 NHIS Estimate: 11.3 Standard Error: 0.193
Year 1995 CPS Esimate: 8.2 Standard Error: 0.141 NHIS Estimate: 10.9 Standard Error: 0.204
Year 1996 CPS Esimate: 8.4 Standard Error: 0.152 NHIS Estimate: 10.6 Standard Error: 0.258
Year 1997 CPS Esimate: 8.3 Standard Error: 0.151 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1998 CPS Esimate: 8.3 Standard Error: 0.15 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1999 CPS Esimate: 7.9 Standard Error: 0.146 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 2000 CPS Esimate: 7.9 Standard Error: 0.146 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Source: Authors' calculations using the Current Population Survey (1981-2000) and National Health 
Interview Survey (1983-1996).
           
Appendix Table 2. Employment Rates of Working Age Men and Women in the Current Population Survey 
(CPS) and National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 
Men Without Disabilities:         
Year 1980 CPS Esimate: 96.7 Standard Error: 0.889 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1981 CPS Esimate: 96.4 Standard Error: 0.935 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1982 CPS Esimate: 95.1 Standard Error: 0.939 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1983 CPS Esimate: 94.7 Standard Error: 0.926 NHIS Estimate: 90.6 Standard Error: 1.02
Year 1984 CPS Esimate: 95.7 Standard Error: 0.931 NHIS Estimate: 92.5 Standard Error: 1.05
Year 1985 CPS Esimate: 95.7 Standard Error: 0.937 NHIS Estimate: 93.2 Standard Error: 1.165
Year 1986 CPS Esimate: 96.1 Standard Error: 0.947 NHIS Estimate: 92.9 Standard Error: 1.341
Year 1987 CPS Esimate: 95.7 Standard Error: 0.961 NHIS Estimate: 93.2 Standard Error: 1.034
Year 1988 CPS Esimate: 95.8 Standard Error: 0.992 NHIS Estimate: 93.8 Standard Error: 0.998
Year 1989 CPS Esimate: 96.1 Standard Error: 0.948 NHIS Estimate: 94 Standard Error: 1.019
Year 1990 CPS Esimate: 95.9 Standard Error: 0.944 NHIS Estimate: 93.1 Standard Error: 1.024
Year 1991 CPS Esimate: 95.4 Standard Error: 0.927 NHIS Estimate: 92.3 Standard Error: 1.016
Year 1992 CPS Esimate: 94.8 Standard Error: 0.917 NHIS Estimate: 91.9 Standard Error: 0.95
Year 1993 CPS Esimate: 94.5 Standard Error: 0.911 NHIS Estimate: 92.6 Standard Error: 1.002
Year 1994 CPS Esimate: 94.8 Standard Error: 0.92 NHIS Estimate: 92.7 Standard Error: 0.983
Year 1995 CPS Esimate: 94.8 Standard Error: 0.977 NHIS Estimate: 93.2 Standard Error: 1.027
Year 1996 CPS Esimate: 94.9 Standard Error: 0.977 NHIS Estimate: 93.4 Standard Error: 1.326
Year 1997 CPS Esimate: 95.2 Standard Error: 0.993 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1998 CPS Esimate: 95.1 Standard Error: 0.976 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1999 CPS Esimate: 95.2 Standard Error: 0.953 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Men With Disabilities:         
Year 1980 CPS Esimate: 42.6 Standard Error: 0.094 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1981 CPS Esimate: 44.8 Standard Error: 0.103 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1982 CPS Esimate: 41.8 Standard Error: 0.12 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1983 CPS Esimate: 39.7 Standard Error: 0.125 NHIS Estimate: 48.9 Standard Error: 0.214
Year 1984 CPS Esimate: 40.4 Standard Error: 0.112 NHIS Estimate: 52.3 Standard Error: 0.191
Year 1985 CPS Esimate: 42.8 Standard Error: 0.112 NHIS Estimate: 50.5 Standard Error: 0.196
Year 1986 CPS Esimate: 43.8 Standard Error: 0.108 NHIS Estimate: 52.9 Standard Error: 0.238
Year 1987 CPS Esimate: 43 Standard Error: 0.112 NHIS Estimate: 49.8 Standard Error: 0.169
Year 1988 CPS Esimate: 42.9 Standard Error: 0.115 NHIS Estimate: 52.1 Standard Error: 0.16
Year 1989 CPS Esimate: 44 Standard Error: 0.106 NHIS Estimate: 52.1 Standard Error: 0.163
Year 1990 CPS Esimate: 42.1 Standard Error: 0.108 NHIS Estimate: 50.3 Standard Error: 0.171
Year 1991 CPS Esimate: 41.5 Standard Error: 0.115 NHIS Estimate: 48.7 Standard Error: 0.181
Year 1992 CPS Esimate: 41.6 Standard Error: 0.123 NHIS Estimate: 45.6 Standard Error: 0.179
Year 1993 CPS Esimate: 37.2 Standard Error: 0.128 NHIS Estimate: 47.7 Standard Error: 0.185
Year 1994 CPS Esimate: 38 Standard Error: 0.124 NHIS Estimate: 48.4 Standard Error: 0.18
Year 1995 CPS Esimate: 34.9 Standard Error: 0.134 NHIS Estimate: 44.9 Standard Error: 0.186
Year 1996 CPS Esimate: 38.2 Standard Error: 0.131 NHIS Estimate: 44.1 Standard Error: 0.225
Year 1997 CPS Esimate: 35.5 Standard Error: 0.126 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1998 CPS Esimate: 34.4 Standard Error: 0.127 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1999 CPS Esimate: 34 Standard Error: 0.125 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Women Without Disabilities:         
Year 1980 CPS Esimate: 69.3 Standard Error: 0.795 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1981 CPS Esimate: 69.9 Standard Error: 0.832 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1982 CPS Esimate: 69.3 Standard Error: 0.867 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1983 CPS Esimate: 70.7 Standard Error: 0.868 NHIS Estimate: 64.7 Standard Error: 0.908
Year 1984 CPS Esimate: 72.6 Standard Error: 0.863 NHIS Estimate: 66.8 Standard Error: 0.925
Year 1985 CPS Esimate: 73.1 Standard Error: 0.905 NHIS Estimate: 69.3 Standard Error: 1.018
Year 1986 CPS Esimate: 74.4 Standard Error: 0.911 NHIS Estimate: 70.8 Standard Error: 1.26
Year 1987 CPS Esimate: 75.2 Standard Error: 0.942 NHIS Estimate: 71.3 Standard Error: 0.914
Year 1988 CPS Esimate: 76.7 Standard Error: 0.979 NHIS Estimate: 72.2 Standard Error: 0.937
Year 1989 CPS Esimate: 77 Standard Error: 0.931 NHIS Estimate: 72.9 Standard Error: 0.947
Year 1990 CPS Esimate: 77.6 Standard Error: 0.909 NHIS Estimate: 73.5 Standard Error: 0.953
Year 1991 CPS Esimate: 77.8 Standard Error: 0.908 NHIS Estimate: 73.1 Standard Error: 0.932
Year 1992 CPS Esimate: 77.6 Standard Error: 0.9 NHIS Estimate: 74 Standard Error: 0.869
Year 1993 CPS Esimate: 78.3 Standard Error: 0.866 NHIS Estimate: 74.3 Standard Error: 0.928
Year 1994 CPS Esimate: 79.1 Standard Error: 0.875 NHIS Estimate: 74.9 Standard Error: 0.88
Year 1995 CPS Esimate: 79.7 Standard Error: 0.907 NHIS Estimate: 75.7 Standard Error: 0.974
Year 1996 CPS Esimate: 80.1 Standard Error: 0.902 NHIS Estimate: 76 Standard Error: 1.254
Year 1997 CPS Esimate: 80.7 Standard Error: 0.887 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1998 CPS Esimate: 80.8 Standard Error: 0.887 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1999 CPS Esimate: 81.6 Standard Error: 0.91 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Women with Disabilities:         
Year 1980 CPS Esimate: 28.5 Standard Error: 0.234 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1981 CPS Esimate: 28.1 Standard Error: 0.244 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1982 CPS Esimate: 29.3 Standard Error: 0.244 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1983 CPS Esimate: 28.9 Standard Error: 0.24 NHIS Estimate: 31.3 Standard Error: 0.326
Year 1984 CPS Esimate: 30.2 Standard Error: 0.234 NHIS Estimate: 33.4 Standard Error: 0.321
Year 1985 CPS Esimate: 32.5 Standard Error: 0.235 NHIS Estimate: 33.6 Standard Error: 0.345
Year 1986 CPS Esimate: 32.1 Standard Error: 0.231 NHIS Estimate: 37.3 Standard Error: 0.402
Year 1987 CPS Esimate: 33.9 Standard Error: 0.228 NHIS Estimate: 36.5 Standard Error: 0.289
Year 1988 CPS Esimate: 36.2 Standard Error: 0.231 NHIS Estimate: 37.5 Standard Error: 0.282
Year 1989 CPS Esimate: 37.5 Standard Error: 0.219 NHIS Estimate: 40.5 Standard Error: 0.29
Year 1990 CPS Esimate: 34.9 Standard Error: 0.217 NHIS Estimate: 40.7 Standard Error: 0.281
Year 1991 CPS Esimate: 35 Standard Error: 0.218 NHIS Estimate: 39.2 Standard Error: 0.282
Year 1992 CPS Esimate: 34.3 Standard Error: 0.219 NHIS Estimate: 39 Standard Error: 0.273
Year 1993 CPS Esimate: 33.4 Standard Error: 0.22 NHIS Estimate: 39.2 Standard Error: 0.297
Year 1994 CPS Esimate: 36 Standard Error: 0.218 NHIS Estimate: 38.5 Standard Error: 0.283
Year 1995 CPS Esimate: 33.9 Standard Error: 0.231 NHIS Estimate: 40.1 Standard Error: 0.298
Year 1996 CPS Esimate: 33.9 Standard Error: 0.228 NHIS Estimate: 38.4 Standard Error: 0.374
Year 1997 CPS Esimate: 31.9 Standard Error: 0.225 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1998 CPS Esimate: 29.5 Standard Error: 0.223 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Year 1999 CPS Esimate: 33.4 Standard Error: 0.219 NHIS Estimate: . Standard Error: .
Source: Authors' calculations using the Current Population Survey (1981-2000) and National Health 
Interview Survey (1983-1996).
           
Appendix Table 3. Median Household Size Adjusted Income Working Age Men and Women in the Current 
Population Survey (CPS), 1981-2000 by Disability Status
Men With Disabilities:         
Year 1980 Estimate: 16,638 Standard Error: 343      
Year 1981 Estimate: 16,856 Standard Error: 472      
Year 1982 Estimate: 15,811 Standard Error: 376      
Year 1983 Estimate: 15,970 Standard Error: 383      
Year 1984 Estimate: 16,132 Standard Error: 383      
Year 1985 Estimate: 16,796 Standard Error: 486      
Year 1986 Estimate: 16,680 Standard Error: 467      
Year 1987 Estimate: 17,036 Standard Error: 439      
Year 1988 Estimate: 16,133 Standard Error: 429      
Year 1989 Estimate: 16,813 Standard Error: 501      
Year 1990 Estimate: 15,821 Standard Error: 453      
Year 1991 Estimate: 16,093 Standard Error: 429      
Year 1992 Estimate: 15,754 Standard Error: 382      
Year 1993 Estimate: 14,752 Standard Error: 413      
Year 1994 Estimate: 14,807 Standard Error: 355      
Year 1995 Estimate: 15,433 Standard Error: 356      
Year 1996 Estimate: 15,117 Standard Error: 415      
Year 1997 Estimate: 15,537 Standard Error: 347      
Year 1998 Estimate: 16,079 Standard Error: 442      
Year 1999 Estimate: 16,969 Standard Error: 452      
Women with Disabilities:         
Year 1980 Estimate: 14,769 Standard Error: 408      
Year 1981 Estimate: 14,702 Standard Error: 512      
Year 1982 Estimate: 14,333 Standard Error: 442      
Year 1983 Estimate: 13,887 Standard Error: 465      
Year 1984 Estimate: 14,599 Standard Error: 484      
Year 1985 Estimate: 14,703 Standard Error: 474      
Year 1986 Estimate: 14,403 Standard Error: 465      
Year 1987 Estimate: 14,432 Standard Error: 547      
Year 1988 Estimate: 14,466 Standard Error: 531      
Year 1989 Estimate: 14,987 Standard Error: 493      
Year 1990 Estimate: 14,992 Standard Error: 492      
Year 1991 Estimate: 14,216 Standard Error: 348      
Year 1992 Estimate: 13,482 Standard Error: 388      
Year 1993 Estimate: 13,254 Standard Error: 380      
Year 1994 Estimate: 14,355 Standard Error: 499      
Year 1995 Estimate: 14,196 Standard Error: 467      
Year 1996 Estimate: 13,773 Standard Error: 382      
Year 1997 Estimate: 14,268 Standard Error: 396      
Year 1998 Estimate: 14,316 Standard Error: 470      
Year 1999 Estimate: 16,127 Standard Error: 633      
Men Without Disabilities:         
Year 1980 Estimate: 28,909 Standard Error: 138      
Year 1981 Estimate: 28,393 Standard Error: 142      
Year 1982 Estimate: 27,806 Standard Error: 151      
Year 1983 Estimate: 28,411 Standard Error: 144      
Year 1984 Estimate: 29,400 Standard Error: 159      
Year 1985 Estimate: 29,989 Standard Error: 154      
Year 1986 Estimate: 30,962 Standard Error: 158      
Year 1987 Estimate: 31,093 Standard Error: 160      
Year 1988 Estimate: 31,760 Standard Error: 172      
Year 1989 Estimate: 31,876 Standard Error: 165      
Year 1990 Estimate: 30,919 Standard Error: 161      
Year 1991 Estimate: 30,411 Standard Error: 155      
Year 1992 Estimate: 30,240 Standard Error: 154      
Year 1993 Estimate: 30,062 Standard Error: 162      
Year 1994 Estimate: 30,478 Standard Error: 157      
Year 1995 Estimate: 30,416 Standard Error: 166      
Year 1996 Estimate: 31,165 Standard Error: 173      
Year 1997 Estimate: 31,643 Standard Error: 165      
Year 1998 Estimate: 33,354 Standard Error: 182      
Year 1999 Estimate: 34,799 Standard Error: 185      
Women without Disabilities:         
Year 1980 Estimate: 25,920 Standard Error: 130      
Year 1981 Estimate: 25,391 Standard Error: 137      
Year 1982 Estimate: 25,083 Standard Error: 134      
Year 1983 Estimate: 25,691 Standard Error: 139      
Year 1984 Estimate: 26,492 Standard Error: 147      
Year 1985 Estimate: 27,155 Standard Error: 142      
Year 1986 Estimate: 27,854 Standard Error: 150      
Year 1987 Estimate: 28,426 Standard Error: 156      
Year 1988 Estimate: 28,590 Standard Error: 171      
Year 1989 Estimate: 28,862 Standard Error: 152      
Year 1990 Estimate: 28,118 Standard Error: 159      
Year 1991 Estimate: 27,925 Standard Error: 152      
Year 1992 Estimate: 27,886 Standard Error: 151      
Year 1993 Estimate: 27,523 Standard Error: 151      
Year 1994 Estimate: 28,022 Standard Error: 152      
Year 1995 Estimate: 28,091 Standard Error: 160      
Year 1996 Estimate: 28,765 Standard Error: 176      
Year 1997 Estimate: 29,487 Standard Error: 169      
Year 1998 Estimate: 30,372 Standard Error: 172      
Year 1999 Estimate: 31,996 Standard Error: 192      
Source: Authors' calculations using the Current Population Survey (1981-2000).    

Appendix Table 4. Tests for Differences in Time Trends Between CPS and NHIS Data, 1983-1996       
Estimated Parameterz are Prevalence Rates and Employment Rates (Standard errors are in parentheses)      
Variable: Constant Prevalence Rates: Men 7.49 (0.54) Women 6.91 (0.39) Employment Rates: Men 39.2 
(1.16) Women 27.4 (1.01)
Variable: Time Prevalence Rates: Men 0.79 (0.46) Women 0.54 (0.33) Employment Rates: Men 1.34 (0.36) 
Women 1.82 (0.3)
Variable: Time^2 Prevalence Rates: Men -0.27 (0.12) Women -0.21 (0.09) Employment Rates: Men -0.12 
(0.02) Women -0.1 (0.02)
Variable: Time^3 Prevalence Rates: Men 0.03 (0.01) Women 0.02 (0.01) 
Variable: Time^4 Prevalence Rates: Men -0.001 (0.0004) Women -0.001 (0.0003)
Variable: NHIS Prevalence Rates: Men 3.65 (0.96) Women 3.49 (0.71) Employment Rates: Men 10.7 (2.29) 
Women 1.91 (1.72)
Variable: NHIS*Time Prevalence Rates: Men -1.02 (0.83) Women 0.05 (0.61) Employment Rates: Men -0.68 
(0.68) Women 0.28 (0.51)
Variable: NHIS*Time^2 Prevalence Rates: Men 0.17 (0.21) Women -0.1 (0.16) Employment Rates: Men 
0.04 (0.04) Women -0.004 (0.03)
Variable: NHIS*Time^3 Prevalence Rates: Men -0.01 (0.02) Women 0.02 (0.02) 
Variable: NHIS*Time^4 Prevalence Rates: Men 0.0002 (0.0007) Women -0.001 (0.0005) 
F-Test on the Interaction Coefficients            
F-Statistic: Prevalence Rates: Men 2.04 Women 2.69 Employment Rates: Men 0.6 Women 1.64     
Prob(F > Fc): Prevalence Rates: Men 0.13 Women 0.06 Employment Rates: Men 0.56 Women 0.22     
Note: To adjust for the fact that the dependent variables are estimates, all regressions are weighted by the 
reciprocal of the their standard errors.  
Source: Authors' calculations using the Current Population Survey (1981-2000) and National Health 
Interview Survey (1983-1996).    
               
               
Appendix Table 5. Tests for Differences in Trends in Employment Rates by Decade and Gender       
Estimated Parameter (Standard errors are in parentheses)          
Variable: Constant 1980s: Men 96.9 (3.59) Women 68.3 (1.05) 1990s: Men 96.2 (3.22) Women 77 (2.61)
Variable: Time 1980s: Men -0.54 (1.51) Women 0.59 (0.45) 1990s: Men -0.49 (1.35) Women 0.32 (1.09)
Variable: Time^2 1980s: Men 0.05 (0.13) Women 0.03 (0.04) 1990s: Men 0.04 (0.12) Women 0.01 (0.1)
Variable: Disability 1980s: Men -52.8 (3.78) Women -40 (1.19) 1990s: Men -52.2 (3.41) Women -42 (2.9)
Variable: Disability*Time 1980s: Men -0.41 (1.59) Women -0.69 (0.5) 1990s: Men -0.97 (1.43) Women -0.35 
(1.21)
Variable: Disability*Time^2 1980s: Men 0.05 (0.14) Women 0.07 (0.04) 1990s: Men 0.01 (0.13) Women -
0.05 (0.11)
F-Test on the Interaction Coefficients            
F-Statistic: 1980s: Men 0.12 Women 1.53 1990s: Men 3.9 Women 5.19     
Prob(F > Fc): 1980s: Men 0.88 Women 0.25 1990s: Men 0.05 Women 0.02     
Note: To adjust for the fact that the dependent variables are estimates, all regressions are weighted by the 
reciprocal of the their standard errors.  
Source: Authors' calculations using the Current Population Survey (1981-2000).        

Appendix Table 6. Employment Rates for Working-Age Men and Women Controlling for Changes in Age, 
Race, Education, and Household Size by Disability Status
Men With Disabilities:      
Work Year 1980 Employment Rate: Actual 42.6 Reweight to 1980 42.6 Reweight to 1989 —
Work Year 1982 Employment Rate: Actual 41.7 Reweight to 1980 41.2 Reweight to 1989 —
Work Year 1989 Employment Rate: Actual 43.9 Reweight to 1980 42.3 Reweight to 1989 43.9
Work Year 1992 Employment Rate: Actual 416 Reweight to 1980 37.4 Reweight to 1989 40
Work Year 1999 Employment Rate: Actual 33.9 Reweight to 1980 30.4 Reweight to 1989 33.2
Percentage Changes:      
Change Years 1980-1992 Actual -2.1 Reweight to 1980 -3.3 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1982-1989 Actual 5.1 Reweight to 1980 2.6 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1980-1989 Actual 3 Reweight to 1980 -0.7 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1989-1992 Actual -5.4 Reweight to 1980 -12.3 Reweight to 1989 -9.3 
Change Years 1992-1999 Actual -20.4 Reweight to 1980 -20.6 Reweight to 1989 -18.6 
Change Years 1989-1999 Actual -25.7 Reweight to 1980 -32.7 Reweight to 1989 -27.8 
Men Without Disabilities:      
Work Year 1980 Employment Rate: Actual 96.7 Reweight to 1980 96.7 Reweight to 1989 —
Work Year 1982 Employment Rate: Actual 95 Reweight to 1980 95 Reweight to 1989 —
Work Year 1989 Employment Rate: Actual 96 Reweight to 1980 95.8 Reweight to 1989 96
Work Year 1992 Employment Rate: Actual 94.7 Reweight to 1980 94.5 Reweight to 1989 94.8
Work Year 1999 Employment Rate: Actual 95.1 Reweight to 1980 94.7 Reweight to 1989 95.2
Percentage Changes:      
Change Years 1980-1992 Actual -1.8 Reweight to 1980 -1.7 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1982-1989 Actual 1 Reweight to 1980 0.8 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1980-1989 Actual -0.7 Reweight to 1980 -1 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1989-1992 Actual -1.4 Reweight to 1980 -1.4 Reweight to 1989 -1.3 
Change Years 1992-1999 Actual 0.4 Reweight to 1980 0.2 Reweight to 1989 -9.3 
Change Years 1989-1999 Actual -0.9 Reweight to 1980 -1.2 Reweight to 1989 -0.8 
Women With Disabilities:      
Work Year 1980 Employment Rate: Actual 28.5 Reweight to 1980 28.5 Reweight to 1989 —
Work Year 1982 Employment Rate: Actual 29.3 Reweight to 1980 28.4 Reweight to 1989 —
Work Year 1989 Employment Rate: Actual 37.4 Reweight to 1980 34 Reweight to 1989 37.4
Work Year 1992 Employment Rate: Actual 34.2 Reweight to 1980 29.2 Reweight to 1989 32.6
Work Year 1999 Employment Rate: Actual 33.3 Reweight to 1980 27 Reweight to 1989 30.4
Percentage Changes:      
Change Years 1980-1992 Actual 2.8 Reweight to 1980 -0.2 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1982-1989 Actual 24.3 Reweight to 1980 17.7 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1980-1989 Actual 27 Reweight to 1980 17.5 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1989-1992 Actual -8.9 Reweight to 1980 -15.1 Reweight to 1989 -13.7 
Change Years 1992-1999 Actual -2.7 Reweight to 1980 -7.8 Reweight to 1989 -7 
Change Years 1989-1999 Actual -11.6 Reweight to 1980 -22.9 Reweight to 1989 -20.7 
Women Without Disabilities:      
Work Year 1980 Employment Rate: Actual 69.2 Reweight to 1980 69.2 Reweight to 1989 —
Work Year 1982 Employment Rate: Actual 69.2 Reweight to 1980 68.6 Reweight to 1989 —
Work Year 1989 Employment Rate: Actual 77 Reweight to 1980 74.4 Reweight to 1989 77
Work Year 1992 Employment Rate: Actual 77.6 Reweight to 1980 74.1 Reweight to 1989 76.6
Work Year 1999 Employment Rate: Actual 81.5 Reweight to 1980 78.1 Reweight to 1989 80.2
Percentage Changes:      
Change Years 1980-1992 Actual 0 Reweight to 1980 -0.9 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1982-1989 Actual 10.7 Reweight to 1980 8.2 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1980-1989 Actual 10.7 Reweight to 1980 7.3 Reweight to 1989 — 
Change Years 1989-1992 Actual 0.8 Reweight to 1980 -0.4 Reweight to 1989 -0.5 
Change Years 1992-1999 Actual 4.9 Reweight to 1980 5.2 Reweight to 1989 4.6 
Change Years 1989-1999 Actual 5.7 Reweight to 1980 4.8 Reweight to 1989 4.1     
Source: Authors' calculations based on the March Current Population Survey, 1981-2000.
