Economics of Disability Research Report #2:

Estimates of Employment Rates for Persons with Disabilities in the United States 
by State, 1980 through 1998

Andrew J. Houtenville, Ph.D.
Rehabilitation Research and Training Center
School of Industrial and Labor Relations
Cornell University

This research is funded by the United States Department of Education, National 
Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research, cooperative agreement No. 
13313980038.  It does not necessarily reflect the view of the National Institute 
on Disability and Rehabilitation Research. The author thanks Richard V. 
Burkhauser for his helpful comments.


ABSTRACT

This report uses data from the March Current Population Survey to estimate 
employment rates for persons with and without a disability in the non-
institutionalized working-age (aged 25 through 61) civilian population in the 
United States, and for each state and the District of Columbia for the years 
1980 through 1998.  The employment rate of persons with a disability relative to 
that of persons without disabilities varies greatly across states.  However, 
over the last 20 years the relative employment rate of those with a disability 
dramatically declined overall and in most states.


INTRODUCTION

The purpose of this report is to provide estimates of the employment rates of 
the non-institutionalized working-age (aged 25 through 61) civilian populations 
with a disability and without disabilities over the period 1980 through 1998 
using the March Supplement of the Current Population Survey (CPS). Estimates of 
the populations with and without a disability are reported in "Economics of 
Disability Research Report (EDRR) #1: Estimates of the Prevalence of Disability 
in the United States by State, 1981 through 1999."*1  The employment rates of 
persons with a disability are compared to the employment rates of those without 
disabilities.  Brief summaries of state rankings and changes over time are 
provided.  The Appendix discusses the statistical precision of the estimated 
annual employment rates and how to convert the employment rates presented in 
this report into levels of employed non-institutionalized working-age civilians 
with a disability. 


DATA SOURCE AND DEFINITIONS

The CPS is a monthly survey of the non-institutionalized population of the 
United States, conducted by the Bureau of the Census on behalf of the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics.  Information is collected from approximately 50,000 households 
(about 150,000 individuals) on labor force characteristics (e.g., employment, 
earnings, hours of work).*2  

In March of each year, the CPS basic monthly survey is supplemented with the 
Annual Demographic Survey, also known as the March Supplement or the March 
Income Supplement.  This supplement focuses on sources of household income, 
government program participation, previous employment, insurance, and a variety 
of demographic characteristics.  In 1981 the March Supplement was expanded to 
include several questions about disability and income derived from disability 
programs and insurance.  The CPS and the March Supplement are used extensively 
by government agencies, academic researchers, policy makers, journalists, and 
the general public to evaluate government programs, economic circumstances and 
the behavior of individuals, families and households.*3   

A major advantage of using the CPS to track the employment of non-
institutionalized working-age civilians with a disability is its large sample 
size.  It is possible to measure employment for the United States and many 
states because the CPS samples approximately 150,000 people.  The March CPS also 
provides a relatively consistent set of questions on disability and employment 
from year to year.*4  

In this report, disability is defined using a single question in the March CPS.  
Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having) "a health problem or 
disability which prevents them from working or which limits the kind or amount 
of work they can do."*5  This definition puts disability in the social context 
of work. This simple definition of disability is not directly affected by 
program participation.  This measure of disability is commonly used in the 
economics literature (see Bound and Burkhauser, 1999).  Most recently, 
Burkhauser, Daly and Houtenville (2000) use this definition to estimate the 
employment and economic well-being of the non-institutionalized working-age 
civilian population with a disability.  The work limitation concept of 
disability can also be found in many national surveys (e.g., National Health 
Interview Survey, Survey of Income and Program Participation, Panel Study of 
Income Dynamics) that have been used to measure the working-age population with 
a disability.

As Economics of Disability Research Report #1 shows, using this work limitation 
measure of disability, the percentage of United States non-institutionalized 
working-age civilian population with a disability ranged from a low of 7.2 
percent in survey year 1988 to a high of 8.4 percent in survey year 1994.  EDRR 
#1 compares this measure of disability to an alternative measure of disability 
based on work limitation and participation in disability-related public 
programs.  The trends over time of these two measures of disability were 
similar.

The CPS Basic Monthly Survey inquires about employment in the week prior to the 
survey.  Unfortunately, the CPS Basic Monthly Survey was substantially revised 
in January 1994, which makes it difficult to compare employment using this 
weekly frame before and after survey year 1994.  The CPS March Supplement asks 
about employment in the previous calendar year.  This question has been 
consistently asked over the years covered by this report.  Respondents report 
the number of weeks worked and, for those weeks, the average number of hours 
worked.*6  Annual hours are calculated by multiplying weeks worked multiplied by 
average hours worked.  People are considered employed if they worked at least 52 
hours annually in the previous calendar year.  While 52 hours per year is to 
some degree an arbitrary number, it sets a minimum level of employment for the 
year.  See Burkhauser, Daly and Houtenville (2000) for an example of previous 
work using this definition of employment.


RESULTS

Table 1 provides the estimated employment rates for the United States non-
institutionalized civilian population aged 25 through 61 for the United States 
for the years 1980 through 1998, by gender and disability status.  Employment 
rates are reported separately for men and women, since men and women have 
historically exhibited different employment patterns.  As can be seen in the 
first row of Table 1, the employment rates of men without a disability are pro-
cyclical, falling in the recession years of the early 1980s and 1990s and rising 
during the growth years of the late 1980s and 1990s.  As can be seen in the 
second row, the employment rates of men with a disability had a similar pro-
cyclical pattern in the 1980s, dropping to 39.7 percent by the business cycle 
trough year of 1983 and rising to 44.0 percent by the business cycle peak year 
of 1989.  The employment rates of men with a disability then dropped again as 
the economy went into recession in the early 1990s but, unlike the 1980s, 
continued to decline throughout the decade despite substantial economic growth.  
The employment rate of men with a disability fell to 34.4 percent in 1998, well 
below their employment rate in the recession years of the early 1990s. 

As can be seen in row three of Table 1, women without a disability, like men 
without a disability, had pro-cyclical employment rates over the 1980s and 
1990s, while women with a disability (row 4) experienced employment outcomes 
similar to men with a disability.  

Table 1 also provides information on the employment rates of men (row 5) and 
women (row 6) with a disability relative to the employment rates of men and 
women without disabilities over the same period.  In all years, the employment 
rate of those with a disability is lower than the employment rate of those 
without disabilities, so the ratio of their two employment rates is less than 
100 percent.*7   In the 1980s, this ratio was pro-cyclical for both men and 
women.  That is, the employment rates of both men and women with a disability 
rose faster than that of other men and women during periods of economic 
expansion and fell more rapidly during periods of economic contraction.  Hence, 
the relative employment of men with a disability rose from 42.0 percent in 1983 
to 45.8 percent in 1989 (trough to peak in the 1980s business cycle).  The 
relative employment of women with a disability rose from 40.9 percent to 48.6 
percent over the same period.  In contrast, the relative employment rates of 
both men and women with a disability declined in the 1990s and reached their 
lowest points in 1998 despite five years of economic growth in the late 1990s.

To further highlight changing patterns of employment, Table 2 compares the 
growth years of the 1980s and 1990s for men and women with and without a 
disability.  Annual employment rates are averaged over the growth periods 1985-
1989 and 1994-1998.  The average annual employment rate of men without 
disabilities was about the same during both periods, averaging 95.9 percent for 
1985-1989 and 95.0 percent for 1994-1998.  In contrast, the average annual 
employment rate of men with a disability averaged 43.3 percent during the growth 
years 1985-1989 but was only 36.2 percent during the growth years 1994-1998.  
This difference is reflected in the relative average annual employment rates of 
men with a disability in the two periods.  The relative average annual 
employment rate of men is 45.2 percent for 1985-1989, but only 38.1 percent for 
1994-1998.  As can be seen in the last column of Table 2, the relative average 
annual employment rate of men with a disability fell by 16.9 percent between the 
two periods.  The employment pattern for women with a disability is similar but 
less severe.  The relative average annual employment of women with a disability 
fell by 10.1 percent over the two periods.

Table 3 provides employment rates averaged over the period 1980 through 1998 for 
the United States, and for each state and the District of Columbia, by gender 
and disability status.   Columns 1, 2, 5, and 6 contain the absolute average 
annual employment rates of men with and without a disability and women with and 
without a disability.  Comparisons of the employment fortunes of men and women 
with a disability are best done controlling for state variations in the 
employment of the entire population.*8  Table 3 focuses on the relative average 
annual employment rates of men (column 3) and women (column 7) with a 
disability.  

In Table 3 states are ranked according to the relative average annual employment 
rates of men with a disability.  Minnesota had the highest relative average 
annual employment rates for men with a disability (64.1 percent), and West 
Virginia had the lowest (28.3 percent).  For women with a disability, relative 
average annual employment rates ranged from 67.7 percent in Minnesota to 29.8 
percent in Mississippi. 

In general, states with lower employment rates for those with a disability also 
had lower relative employment rates.   This pattern of relative employment being 
lower in states with weaker economics is consistent with variations observed 
over time in Table 1 where relative employment fell during recessionary years.

Tables 4a and 4b compare changes in relative employment rates for men and women 
with a disability, respectively, between the growth periods 1985-1989 and 1994-
1998.  States are ranked according to the percentage change in the relative 
average annual employment rate of those with a disability between the periods 
1985-1989 and 1994-1998.  A positive percentage change in relative employment 
signifies a closing of the employment gap between those with and without a 
disability.  Conversely, a negative percentage change in relative employment 
signifies a widening of the employment gap between those with and without a 
disability.  As can be seen in Table 4a, there was wide variation in employment 
outcomes of men with a disability, ranging from a rise of 18.1 percent in Utah 
to a fall of 57.6 percent in Connecticut.  Overall, the gap widened.  Only 8 
states experienced a narrowing of the employment gap between men with and 
without a disability. 

As can be seen in Table 4b, the pattern for women was similar.  The percentage 
change in relative average annual employment rate of women with a disability 
ranged from a rise of 19.3 percent in South Dakota to a fall of 68.9 percent in 
Rhode Island.  Only 11 states saw a narrowing of the employment gap between 
women with and without a disability.  

CONCLUSION

This report uses data from the Current Population Survey to measure the 
employment rates of persons with and without a disability over the 1980s and 
1990s for the United States, and for each state and the District of Columbia.  
In the 1980s, the employment rates of men and women with and without a 
disability was pro-cyclical, rising in years of economic growth and falling in 
years of economic contraction.  The national employment of men and women with a 
disability was more sensitive to the business cycle however with relative 
employment rates of those with a disability rising over the growth years and 
declining during recessionary years.  This pattern was also found across most 
states.  In the 1990s, however, while the employment of men and women without 
disabilities continued to be pro-cyclical, the employment of men and women with 
a disability continued to drop from their 1989 business cycle peak levels 
despite substantial economic growth in the 1990s.  Hence, by 1998 the national 
employment rate was at a two-decade low for men with a disability and was near 
that level for women with a disability.  This pattern of declining relative 
employment of those with a disability is both wide and deep.  When the relative 
average employment rates during the growth period of the 1980s are compared to 
those of the 1990s, the vast majority of states experienced declines in relative 
employment for both men and women with a disability.


APPENDIX

The CPS sample design allows researchers to estimate statistically precise 
annual employment rates at the national level and for many states.  Although 
individuals with a disability make up only about 8 percent of the non-
institutionalized working-age civilian population in the United States, the 
number of CPS participants is sufficient to obtain statistically precise 
estimates of employment rates for persons with a disability at the national 
level and for many states.  The consistency of the CPS survey instrument over 
time allows estimated employment rates to be averaged over consecutive years, 
which boosts the statistical precision for those states with small sample sizes.  
In Tables 2, 4a and 4b, years are averaged to assure greater statistical 
precision.

Caution must be used when using the estimated annual employment rates in 
Appendix Tables 1a, 1b, 1c, and 1d.  The annual sample size of some states is 
extremely low.  Appendix Tables 2a, 2b, 2c, and 2d contain standard errors for 
the estimated annual employment rates in Appendix Tables 1a, 1b, 1c, and 1d, 
respectively.  Some of the standard errors in these tables are quite large 
relative to the estimated annual employment rates, which means that the 
estimated annual employment rates are poor approximations of the true annual 
employment rates.  (Appendix Tables 4a, 4b, 4c, and 4b contain the size of the 
sample used to estimate the standard errors for the estimated annual employment 
rates in Appendix Tables 1a, 1b, 1c, and 1d, respectively.)

Averaging estimated annual employment rates over several consecutive years, as 
is done in Tables 3, 4a, and 4b in the text, increases the statistical precision 
of estimated employment rates.  However, the design of the CPS causes a problem.  
In the March CPS of any given year, approximately half of the households were 
surveyed the previous March, while the remaining households are eligible to be 
surveyed the following March.  See Census Bureau (1998) for more information.  
The estimated standard errors of an average must be adjusted to account for 
correlation across consecutive years.  For example, an individual's responses in 
March 1985 are correlated with his or her response in March 1986.  

Following Census Bureau guidelines, the formula for the estimated standard error 
for the average of estimated annual employment rates for 1990 and 1989 is one-
half multiplied by the square root of the following: the standard error of the 
percentage in 1990 squared plus the standard error of the percentage in 1989 
minus the following product 2 multiplied by the correlation coefficient of 1990 
and 1989 multiplied by the standard error of the percentage in 1990 multiplied 
by the standard error of the percentage in 1989. The estimated standard errors 
can be obtained by multiplying the estimated coefficient of variation by the 
estimated percentage and then dividing by 100.  The general formula for 
averaging over more than consecutive years is the reciprocal of the number of 
years multiplied by the square root of the following: the summation of the 
squared standard error of the percentage of each year plus the summation over 
all the consecutive year pairs of the following product: the correlation 
coefficient of a pair of consecutive multiplied by the standard error of the 
first year multiplied by the standard error of the second year.   Appendix 
Tables 2a, 2b, 2c, and 2d contain standard errors for the estimated annual 
employment rates in Appendix Tables 1a, 1b, 1c, and 1d, respectively.  Appendix 
Table 5 contains estimated correlation coefficients for the United States, which 
can be used to approximate this value for a given state. 

The estimated number of employed non-institutionalized working-age civilians, by 
gender and disability status, can be calculated using these tables.  For 
example, the estimated number of employed non-institutionalized working-age 
civilian women with a disability in New York in employment year 1980 is 734,926 
women.  This number is obtained by multiplying the estimated annual employment 
rate of non-institutionalized working-age civilian women with a disability in 
New York in employment year 1980 (Appendix Table 1d) by the estimated number of 
non-institutionalized working-age civilian women with a disability (in 
thousands) in New York in employment year 1980 (Appendix Table 3d) and then 
multiplying by 10 (i.e., 21.3 multiplied by 3,450 multiplied by 10 equals 
734,926.

ENDNOTES

1. "EDRR #1: Estimates of the Prevalence of Disability in the United States by 
State, 1981 through 1999" covers the period 1981 through 1999, referred to as 
survey years. "EDRR #2: Estimates of Employment Rates for Persons with a 
Disability" covers the period 1980 through 1998, referred to as employment 
years.  This difference occurs because employment in the March Current 
Population Survey is reported for the previous calendar year, while disability 
is reported at the time of the survey.  Both papers are based on the March 
Current Population Survey for 1981 through 1999.

2. Only one person in the household answers questions for all household members.

3.For a fuller discussion of the CPS, see U.S. Bureau of the Census (1998) or 
http://www.bls.census.gov/cps/.

4. In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994 there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

5. Inclusion in the population with a disability is based on the following 
questions: "(62A) Does anyone in this household have a health problem or 
disability which prevents them from working or which limits the kind or amount 
of work they can do?  (62B) If yes to 62A., who is that? (Anyone else?)"  These 
questions are from the 1981 survey.  Note that a single household member answers 
the survey for all household members.  The Census Bureau recodes the survey to 
the individual level, so researchers can generate statistics for individuals.
The use of self-reports of disability is controversial.  Self-perception of a 
disability as captured by this measure can be influenced by social context 
(i.e., barriers and accommodations).  For instance, reports of a work limitation 
may change over time even holding the underlying health condition constant 
because access to accommodation may change one's perception of a disability over 
time.  See Kirchner (1996) for a fuller discussion of this issue and the uses of 
the CPS to analyze "access-oriented" policies.

6. The number of weeks worked is obtained using the following question: "(33) 
During 19XX in how many weeks did ... work even for a few hours?  Include paid 
vacation and sick leave as work."  (41) The number of hours worked is obtained 
using the following question: "In the weeks that ... worked, how many hours did 
... usually work per week?" These questions are from the 1981 survey.

7. The relative employment rate is the employment of those with a disability as 
a percentage of the employment of those without disabilities.  The higher the 
value of relative employment, the closer the employment rates of persons with a 
disability are to persons without disabilities.  For example, a relative 
employment rate of 100 percent means that those with and without a disability 
have the same employment rate.

8. The estimated correlation of the absolute employment rates of those with and 
without a disability across states (in Table 3) is 0.70 for men and 0.69 for 
women.  For women, the estimated correlation is 0.69.  This suggests that state 
economics are important in determining the employment of those with a 
disability.  


REFERENCES

Bound, John, and Richard V. Burkhauser. 1999. "Economic Analysis of Transfer 
Programs Targeted on People with a disability." In Orley C. Ashenfelter and 
David Card (eds.), Handbook of Labor Economics. Volume 3C. Amsterdam: Elsevier 
Science, pp. 3417-3528.

Burkhauser, Richard V., Mary C. Daly, and Andrew J. Houtenville. 2000. "How 
Working-age People with a disability Fared Over the 1990s Business Cycle." 
Ithaca, NY: Research and Rehabilitation Training Center for Economic Research on 
Employment Policy for Persons with Disabilities, Cornell University.

Houtenville, Andrew. 2000. "Economics of Disability Research Report #1: 
Estimates of the Prevalence of Disability in the United States by State, 1981 
through 1999." Ithaca, NY: Research and Rehabilitation Training Center for 
Economic Research on Employment Policy for Persons with Disabilities, Cornell 
University.

Kirchner, Corinne. 1996. "Looking Under the Street Lamp," Journal of Disability 
Policy Studies 7(1): 78-90.

U.S. Bureau of the Census. 1998. Current Population Survey, March 1998. 
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Commerce.

Table 1.  Employment and Relative Employment Rates of Non-Institutionalized 
Civilians Aged 25 through 61 for the United States, by Gender and Disability 
Status, Employment Years 1980 through 1998a

Employment Rate*b

Group:  Men without a Disability*a
Employment Year
1980:  96.7
1981:  96.4
1982:  95.1
1983:  94.7
1984*c:  95.7
1985:  95.7
1986:  96.1
1987:  95.7
1988:  95.8
1989:  96.1
1990:  95.9
1991:  95.4
1992:  94.8
1993*c:  94.5
1994:  94.8
1995:  94.8
1996:  94.9
1997:  95.2
1998:  95.1

Employment Rate*b

Group:  Men without a Disability*a
Employment Year
1980:  42.6
1981:  44.8
1982:  41.7
1983:  39.7
1984*c:  40.4
1985:  42.8
1986:  43.8
1987:  43.0
1988:  42.9
1989:  44.0
1990:  42.1
1991:  41.5
1992:  41.6
1993*c:  37.2
1994:  38.0
1995:  34.9
1996:38.2
1997:  35.5
1998:  34.4

Employment Rate*b

Group:  Men without a Disability*a
Employment Year
1980:  69.3
1981:  69.9
1982:  69.3
1983:  70.7
1984*c:  72.6
1985:  73.1
1986:  74.4
1987:  75.2
1988:  76.7
1989:  77.0
1990:  77.6
1991:  77.8
1992:  77.6
1993*c:  78.3
1994:  79.1
1995:  79.7
1996:80.1
1997:  80.7
1998:  80.8


Employment Rate*b

Group:  Men without a Disability*a
Employment Year
1980:  28.5
1981:  28.1
1982:  29.3
1983:  28.9
1984*c:  30.2
1985:  32.4
1986:  32.1
1987:  33.9
1988:  36.2
1989:  37.5
1990:  34.9
1991:  35.0
1992:  34.3
1993*c:  33.4
1994:  36.0
1995:  33.9
1996:  33.9
1997:  31.9
1998:  29.5


Relative Employment Rate of Persons with a Disability*d
Gender:  Men
Employment Year
1980:  44.1
1981:  46.5
1982:  43.9
1983:  42.0
1984*c:  42.2
1985:  44.7
1986:  45.6
1987:  44.9
1988:  44.8
1989:  45.8
1990:  43.9
1991:  43.5
1992:  43.9
1993*c:  39.4
1994:  40.1
1995:  36.8
1996:  40.3
1997:  37.3
1998:  36.2


Relative Employment Rate of Persons with a Disability*d
Gender:  Women
Employment Year
1980:  41.1
1981:  40.1
1982:  42.4
1983:  40.9
1984*c:  41.6
1985:  44.4
1986:  43.1
1987:  45.1
1988:  47.2
1989:  48.6
1990:  45.0
1991:  45.0
1992:  44.1
1993*c:  42.6
1994:  45.5
1995:  42.5
1996:  42.4
1997:  39.6
1998:  36.6

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.
a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  Individuals who report that they worked at least 52 hours annually in the 
previous calendar year, the "employment year," at civilian jobs or businesses, 
including temporary, part-time, or seasonal work are considered to have been 
employed. 

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

d.  The relative employment rate is defined as the employment of those with a 
disability as a percentage of the employment of those without a disability.


Table 2.  Employment and Relative Employment Rates of Non-Institutionalized 
Civilians Aged 25 through 61 for the United States Averaged over the Five-Year 
Growth Periods of the 1980s and 1990s Business Cycles, and Percentage Changes, 
by Gender and Disability Status*a

Gender
Men

Growth Period: Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b
Without Disability:  95.9
With Disability:  43.3
Relative Employment*c:  45.2

Growth Period: Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b
Without Disability:  95.0
With Disability:  36.2
Relative Employment*c:  38.1

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
16.9

Gender
Women

Growth Period: Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b
Without Disability:  75.3
With Disability:  34.4
Relative Employment*c:  45.7

Growth Period: Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b
Without Disability:  80.1
With Disability:  33.1
Relative Employment*c:  41.3

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
10.1

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1985 and 1995 through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  Individuals who report that they worked at least 52 hours annually in the 
previous calendar year, the "employment year," at civilian jobs or businesses, 
including temporary, part-time, or seasonal work are considered to have been 
employed.

c.  Relative employment is defined as the employment of those with disabilities 
as a percentage of the employment of those without disabilities. 

d.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

e.  The percentage change is defined as the difference in relative employment 
divided by the average of the two relative employments multiplied by 100.


Please note that the information from Table 3 is described here twice:  First 
with all information in alphabetical order by location for men and women, then 
with only relative employment rates by rank order for men and women 

Table 3.  Employment and Relative Employment Rates of Non-Institutionalized 
Civilians Aged 25 through 61 for the United States, and for Each State and the 
District of Columbia over the Period of Employment Years 1980 through 1998, and 
Rankings, by Gender and Disability Status*a

Location
Alabama

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  27.5
Relative Employment*c:  28.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  50

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  73.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  23.0
Relative Employment*c:  31.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  49

Location
Alaska

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  54.1
Relative Employment*c:  56.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  7

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  46.5
Relative Employment*c:  58.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  6

Location
Arizona

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  48.4
Relative Employment*c:  50.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  20

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  74.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.3
Relative Employment*c:  51.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  18

Location
Arkansas

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  35.1
Relative Employment*c:  36.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  43

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  76.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.5
Relative Employment*c:  39.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  36

Location
California

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.3
Relative Employment*c:  42.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  28

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  73.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.5
Relative Employment*c:  46.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  23

Location
Colorado

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  54.5
Relative Employment*c:  56.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  9

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.2
Relative Employment*c:  55.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  11

Location
Connecticut

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  55.1
Relative Employment*c:  57.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  6

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.8
Relative Employment*c:  54.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  12

Location
DC

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  89.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.8
Relative Employment*c:  34.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  47

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  83.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.6
Relative Employment*c:  34.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  45

Location
Delaware

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.6
Relative Employment*c:  45.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  24

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  35.9
Relative Employment*c:  45.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  26

Location
Florida

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.1
Relative Employment*c:  42.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  30

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  76.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.4
Relative Employment*c:  43.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  29

Location
Georgia

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.6
Relative Employment*c:  39.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  37

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  29.9
Relative Employment*c:  38.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  41

Location
Hawaii

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  93.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.7
Relative Employment*c:  41.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  33

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.0
Relative Employment*c:  47.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  22

Location
Idaho

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  55.1
Relative Employment*c:  56.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  8

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.5
Relative Employment*c:  56.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  8

Location
Illinois

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  39.1
Relative Employment*c:  41.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  35

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  75.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  29.5
Relative Employment*c:  39.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  37

Location
Indiana

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.8
Relative Employment*c:  42.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  29

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  32.3
Relative Employment*c:  41.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  32

Location
Iowa

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  52.8
Relative Employment*c:  54.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  13

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  81.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.6
Relative Employment*c:  53.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  15

Location
Kansas

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  52.1
Relative Employment*c:  53.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  16

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  81.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.7
Relative Employment*c:  55.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  10

Location
Kentucky

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  31.2
Relative Employment*c:  32.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  48

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  72.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  24.3
Relative Employment*c:  33.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  47

Location
Louisiana

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.0
Relative Employment*c:  34.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  46

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  69.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  23.7
Relative Employment*c:  34.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  46

Location
Maine

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.1
Relative Employment*c:  41.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  31

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.0
Relative Employment*c:  45.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  25

Location
Maryland

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  45.4
Relative Employment*c:  47.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  21

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  32.3
Relative Employment*c:  40.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  35

Location
Massachusetts

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  41.2
Relative Employment*c:  43.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  27

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  32.7
Relative Employment*c:  41.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  33

Location
Michigan

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  41.0
Relative Employment*c:  43.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  26

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  73.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  29.7
Relative Employment*c:  40.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  34

Location
Minnesota

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  62.5
Relative Employment*c:  64.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  1

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  84.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  57.0
Relative Employment*c:  67.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  1

Location
Mississippi

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.3
Relative Employment*c:  35.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  45

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  74.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  22.3
Relative Employment*c:  29.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  51

Location
Missouri

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  42.0
Relative Employment*c:  43.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  25

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.4
Relative Employment*c:  45.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  24

Location
Montana

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  53.1
Relative Employment*c:  55.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  11

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.9
Relative Employment*c:  54.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  13

Location
Nebraska

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  53.6
Relative Employment*c:  54.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  12

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  81.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.3
Relative Employment*c:  54.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  14

Location
Nevada

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  51.7
Relative Employment*c:  53.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  14

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.7
Relative Employment*c:  56.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  9

Location
New Hampshire

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  51.4
Relative Employment*c:  52.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  17

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  81.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  41.9
Relative Employment*c:  51.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  19

Location
New Jersey

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  39.5
Relative Employment*c:  41.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  34

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  74.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  32.7
Relative Employment*c:  43.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  30

Location
New Mexico

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  35.9
Relative Employment*c:  38.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  40

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  71.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  32.0
Relative Employment*c:  44.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  28

Location
New York

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  93.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.7
Relative Employment*c:  36.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  44

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  70.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  26.5
Relative Employment*c:  37.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  44

Location
North Carolina

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  37.8
Relative Employment*c:  39.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  38

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.7
Relative Employment*c:  37.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  43

Location
North Dakota

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  57.3
Relative Employment*c:  58.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  4

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  47.8
Relative Employment*c:  59.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  4

Location
Ohio

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.5
Relative Employment*c:  38.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  39

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  74.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.5
Relative Employment*c:  38.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  40

Location
Oklahoma

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.3
Relative Employment*c:  46.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  22

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  76.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.1
Relative Employment*c:  44.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  27

Location
Oregon

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  54.9
Relative Employment*c:  57.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  5

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  42.1
Relative Employment*c:  53.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  16

Location
Pennsylvania

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  35.9
Relative Employment*c:  37.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  41

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  72.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.5
Relative Employment*c:  39.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  38

Location
Rhode Island

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  39.7
Relative Employment*c:  41.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  32

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.6
Relative Employment*c:  42.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  31

Location
South Carolina

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.2
Relative Employment*c:  31.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  49

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  77.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  29.3
Relative Employment*c:  38.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  42

Location
South Dakota

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  54.3
Relative Employment*c:  56.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  10

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  83.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  49.8
Relative Employment*c:  59.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  3

Location
Tennessee

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.9
Relative Employment*c:  36.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  42

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  76.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  25.1
Relative Employment*c:  32.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  48

Location
Texas

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.8
Relative Employment*c:  45.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  23

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  74.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.7
Relative Employment*c:  49.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  21

Location
United States

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.5
Relative Employment*c:  42.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  --

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  75.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  32.6
Relative Employment*c:  43.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  --

Location
Utah

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  59.5
Relative Employment*c:  61.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  3

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  73.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.5
Relative Employment*c:  60.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  2

Location
Vermont

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  50.7
Relative Employment*c:  52.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  18

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  83.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.4
Relative Employment*c:  53.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  17

Location
Virginia

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.7
Relative Employment*c:  39.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  36

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.5
Relative Employment*c:  38.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  39

Location
Washington

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  51.7
Relative Employment*c:  53.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  15

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  77.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.3
Relative Employment*c:  49.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  20

Location
West Virginia

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  92.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  26.1
Relative Employment*c:  28.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  51

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  63.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  19.9
Relative Employment*c:  31.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  50

Location
Wisconsin

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  50.4
Relative Employment*c:  51.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  19

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  82.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  47.2
Relative Employment*c:  57.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  7

Location
Wyoming

Men
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  61.4
Relative Employment*c:  63.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  2

Women
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  46.9
Relative Employment*c:  59.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  5

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.
a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  Individuals who report that they worked at least 52 hours annually in the 
previous calendar year, the "employment year," at civilian jobs or businesses, 
including temporary, part-time, or seasonal work are considered to have been 
employed.

c.  Relative employment is defined as the employment of those with disabilities 
as a percentage of the employment of those without disabilities. 


Table 3 Employment and Relative Employment Rates of Non-Institutionalized 
Civilians Aged 25 through 61 for the United States, and for Each State and the 
District of Columbia over the Period of Employment Years 1980 through 1998, and 
Rankings, by Gender and Disability Status*a


Men

Location
Minnesota
Relative Employment*c:  64.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  1

Location
Wyoming
Relative Employment*c:  63.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  2

Location
Utah
Relative Employment*c:  61.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  3

Location
North Dakota
Relative Employment*c:  58.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  4

Location
Oregon
Relative Employment*c:  57.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  5

Location
Connecticut
Relative Employment*c:  57.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  6

Location
Alaska
Relative Employment*c:  56.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  7

Location
Idaho
Relative Employment*c:  56.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  8

Location
Colorado
Relative Employment*c:  56.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  9

Location
South Dakota
Relative Employment*c:  56.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  10

Location
Montana
Relative Employment*c:  55.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  11

Location
Nebraska
Relative Employment*c:  54.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  12

Location
Iowa
Relative Employment*c:  54.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  13

Location
Nevada
Relative Employment*c:  53.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  14

Location
Washington
Relative Employment*c:  53.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  15

Location
Kansas
Relative Employment*c:  53.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  16

Location
New Hampshire
Relative Employment*c:  52.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  17

Location
Vermont
Relative Employment*c:  52.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  18

Location
Wisconsin
Relative Employment*c:  51.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  19

Location
Arizona
Relative Employment*c:  50.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  20

Location
Maryland
Relative Employment*c:  47.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  21

Location
Oklahoma
Relative Employment*c:  46.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  22

Location
Texas
Relative Employment*c:  45.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  23

Location
Delaware
Relative Employment*c:  45.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  24

Location
Missouri
Relative Employment*c:  43.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  25

Location
Michigan
Relative Employment*c:  43.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  26

Location
Massachusetts
Relative Employment*c:  43.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  27

Location
California
Relative Employment*c:  42.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  28

Location
Indiana
Relative Employment*c:  42.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  29

Location
Florida
Relative Employment*c:  42.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  30

Location
Maine
Relative Employment*c:  41.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  31

Location
Rhode Island
Relative Employment*c:  41.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  32

Location
Hawaii
Relative Employment*c:  41.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  33

Location
New Jersey
Relative Employment*c:  41.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  34

Location
Illinois
Relative Employment*c:  41.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  35

Location
Virginia
Relative Employment*c:  39.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  36

Location
Georgia
Relative Employment*c:  39.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  37

Location
North Carolina
Relative Employment*c:  39.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  38

Location
Ohio
Relative Employment*c:  38.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  39

Location
New Mexico
Relative Employment*c:  38.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  40

Location
Pennsylvania
Relative Employment*c:  37.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  41

Location
Tennessee
Relative Employment*c:  36.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  42

Location
Arkansas
Relative Employment*c:  36.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  43

Location
New York
Relative Employment*c:  36.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  44

Location
Mississippi
Relative Employment*c:  35.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  45

Location
Louisiana
Relative Employment*c:  34.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  46

Location
DC
Relative Employment*c:  34.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  47

Location
Kentucky
Relative Employment*c:  32.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  48

Location
South Carolina
Relative Employment*c:  31.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  49

Location
Alabama
Relative Employment*c:  28.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  50

Location
West Virginia
Relative Employment*c:  28.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  51

Location
United States
Relative Employment*c:  42.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  --

Women

Location
Minnesota
Relative Employment*c:  67.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  1

Location
Utah
Relative Employment*c:  60.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  2

Location
South Dakota
Relative Employment*c:  59.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  3

Location
North Dakota
Relative Employment*c:  59.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  4

Location
Wyoming
Relative Employment*c:  59.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  5

Location
Alaska
Relative Employment*c:  58.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  6

Location
Wisconsin
Relative Employment*c:  57.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  7

Location
Idaho
Relative Employment*c:  56.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  8

Location
Nevada
Relative Employment*c:  56.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  9

Location
Kansas
Relative Employment*c:  55.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  10

Location
Colorado
Relative Employment*c:  55.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  11

Location
Connecticut
Relative Employment*c:  54.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  12

Location
Montana
Relative Employment*c:  54.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  13

Location
Nebraska
Relative Employment*c:  54.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  14

Location
Iowa
Relative Employment*c:  53.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  15

Location
Oregon
Relative Employment*c:  53.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  16

Location
Vermont
Relative Employment*c:  53.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  17

Location
Arizona
Relative Employment*c:  51.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  18

Location
New Hampshire
Relative Employment*c:  51.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  19

Location
Washington
Relative Employment*c:  49.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  20

Location
Texas
Relative Employment*c:  49.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  21

Location
Hawaii
Relative Employment*c:  47.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  22

Location
California
Relative Employment*c:  46.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  23

Location
Missouri
Relative Employment*c:  45.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  24

Location
Maine
Relative Employment*c:  45.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  25

Location
Delaware
Relative Employment*c:  45.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  26

Location
Oklahoma
Relative Employment*c:  44.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  27

Location
New Mexico
Relative Employment*c:  44.6
Ranked by Relative Employment:  28

Location
Florida
Relative Employment*c:  43.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  29

Location
New Jersey
Relative Employment*c:  43.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  30

Location
Rhode Island
Relative Employment*c:  42.0
Ranked by Relative Employment:  31

Location
Indiana
Relative Employment*c:  41.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  32

Location
Massachusetts
Relative Employment*c:  41.4
Ranked by Relative Employment:  33

Location
Michigan
Relative Employment*c:  40.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  34

Location
Maryland
Relative Employment*c:  40.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  35

Location
Arkansas
Relative Employment*c:  39.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  36

Location
Illinois
Relative Employment*c:  39.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  37

Location
Pennsylvania
Relative Employment*c:  39.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  38

Location
Virginia
Relative Employment*c:  38.7
Ranked by Relative Employment:  39

Location
Ohio
Relative Employment*c:  38.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  40

Location
Georgia
Relative Employment*c:  38.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  41

Location
South Carolina
Relative Employment*c:  38.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  42

Location
North Carolina
Relative Employment*c:  37.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  43

Location
New York
Relative Employment*c:  37.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  44

Location
DC
Relative Employment*c:  34.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  45

Location
Louisiana
Relative Employment*c:  34.2
Ranked by Relative Employment:  46

Location
Kentucky
Relative Employment*c:  33.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  47

Location
Tennessee
Relative Employment*c:  32.9
Ranked by Relative Employment:  48

Location
Alabama
Relative Employment*c:  31.5
Ranked by Relative Employment:  49

Location
West Virginia
Relative Employment*c:  31.3
Ranked by Relative Employment:  50

Location
Mississippi
Relative Employment*c:  29.8
Ranked by Relative Employment:  51

Location
United States
Relative Employment*c:  43.1
Ranked by Relative Employment:  --


Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.
a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  Individuals who report that they worked at least 52 hours annually in the 
previous calendar year, the "employment year," at civilian jobs or businesses, 
including temporary, part-time, or seasonal work are considered to have been 
employed.

c.  Relative employment is defined as the employment of those with disabilities 
as a percentage of the employment of those without disabilities. 


Table 4a.  Men: Employment and Relative Employment Rates of Non-
Institutionalized Civilian Men Aged 25 through 61 for the United States, and for 
Each State and the District of Columbia over the Five-Year Growth Periods of the 
1980s and 1990s Business Cycles, Percentage Changes, and Rankings, by Disability 
Status*a
Location
United States

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.3
Relative Employment*c:  45.2

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.2
Relative Employment*c:  38.1

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
16.9**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  --

Location
Utah

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  53.3
Relative Employment*c:  55.0

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  64.0
Relative Employment*c:  65.9

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  
18.1
Ranked by Percentage Change:  1

Location
Tennessee

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  35.8
Relative Employment*c:  37.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  39.4
Relative Employment*c:  41.8

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  
10.9
Ranked by Percentage Change:  2

Location
Alabama

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  26.2
Relative Employment*c:  27.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.9
Relative Employment*c:  30.4

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  
10.0
Ranked by Percentage Change:  3

Location
Oregon

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  50.9
Relative Employment*c:  53.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  56.7
Relative Employment*c:  59.1

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  9.8
Ranked by Percentage Change:  4

Location
Maryland

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.6
Relative Employment*c:  45.0

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  46.3
Relative Employment*c:  49.0

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  8.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  5

Location
Hawaii

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  93.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.5
Relative Employment*c:  41.0

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  91.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.1
Relative Employment*c:  43.6

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  6.3
Ranked by Percentage Change:  6

Location
Montana

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  50.0
Relative Employment*c:  52.0

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  52.8
Relative Employment*c:  55.2

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  6.1
Ranked by Percentage Change:  7

Location
Idaho

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  58.4
Relative Employment*c:  59.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  58.3
Relative Employment*c:  59.9

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  0.3
Ranked by Percentage Change:  8

Location
Pennsylvania

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  35.0
Relative Employment*c:  36.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.7
Relative Employment*c:  36.2

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
1.1
Ranked by Percentage Change:  9

Location
South Carolina

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  29.7
Relative Employment*c:  30.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.8
Relative Employment*c:  30.2

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
1.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  10

Location
New Hampshire

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  59.4
Relative Employment*c:  60.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  56.4
Relative Employment*c:  58.0

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
4.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  11

Location
Minnesota

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  63.7
Relative Employment*c:  65.2

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  59.6
Relative Employment*c:  61.4

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
6.1
Ranked by Percentage Change:  12

Location
Arizona

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.6
Relative Employment*c:  45.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.1
Relative Employment*c:  42.5

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
7.0
Ranked by Percentage Change:  13

Location
Delaware

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.2
Relative Employment*c:  45.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  41.2
Relative Employment*c:  42.6

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
7.1
Ranked by Percentage Change:  14

Location
Wyoming

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  61.0
Relative Employment*c:  62.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  56.4
Relative Employment*c:  58.2

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
7.1
Ranked by Percentage Change:  15

Location
DC

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  93.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.4
Relative Employment*c:  36.9

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  87.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  29.8
Relative Employment*c:  34.0

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
8.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  16

Location
Alaska

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  55.9
Relative Employment*c:  58.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  50.0
Relative Employment*c:  52.3

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
11.3
Ranked by Percentage Change:  17

Location
California

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  42.1
Relative Employment*c:  44.1

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  93.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.3
Relative Employment*c:  39.0

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
12.4
Ranked by Percentage Change:  18

Location
Texas

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.0
Relative Employment*c:  45.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.3
Relative Employment*c:  40.0

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
13.0
Ranked by Percentage Change:  19

Location
North Carolina

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.9
Relative Employment*c:  40.3

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.9
Relative Employment*c:  35.2

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
13.3
Ranked by Percentage Change:  20

Location
Nebraska

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  52.7
Relative Employment*c:  54.1

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  46.0
Relative Employment*c:  47.1

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
13.7
Ranked by Percentage Change:  21

Location
Missouri

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  50.2
Relative Employment*c:  52.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.2
Relative Employment*c:  45.5

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
14.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  22

Location
Nevada

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  59.2
Relative Employment*c:  61.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  50.3
Relative Employment*c:  53.4

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
14.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  23

Location
New York

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  37.1
Relative Employment*c:  39.1

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  92.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.9
Relative Employment*c:  33.5

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
15.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  24

Location
Washington

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  52.9
Relative Employment*c:  54.9

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.7
Relative Employment*c:  46.8

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
16.0
Ranked by Percentage Change:  25

Location
Colorado

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  61.5
Relative Employment*c:  63.8

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  51.9
Relative Employment*c:  53.8

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
17.0
Ranked by Percentage Change:  26

Location
Ohio

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.7
Relative Employment*c:  40.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  32.8
Relative Employment*c:  34.1

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
17.2**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  27

Location
Indiana

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  41.5
Relative Employment*c:  43.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  35.0
Relative Employment*c:  36.4

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
18.0
Ranked by Percentage Change:  28

Location
Illinois

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.9
Relative Employment*c:  43.2

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.2
Relative Employment*c:  36.0

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
18.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  29

Location
New Mexico

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.3
Relative Employment*c:  42.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  93.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  32.4
Relative Employment*c:  34.8

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
20.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  30

Location
South Dakota

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  60.5
Relative Employment*c:  62.2

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  48.8
Relative Employment*c:  50.4

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
21.0**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  31

Location
Kentucky

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.1
Relative Employment*c:  35.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  27.3
Relative Employment*c:  28.7

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
21.9
Ranked by Percentage Change:  32

Location
Maine

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  46.8
Relative Employment*c:  48.4

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.9
Relative Employment*c:  38.5

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
22.9
Ranked by Percentage Change:  33

Location
North Dakota

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  65.4
Relative Employment*c:  66.9

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  51.7
Relative Employment*c:  52.9

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
23.3**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  34

Location
New Jersey

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.2
Relative Employment*c:  44.4

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.2
Relative Employment*c:  34.9

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
23.9**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  35

Location
Florida

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  45.1
Relative Employment*c:  46.9

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.5
Relative Employment*c:  36.6

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
24.6**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  36

Location
Georgia

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  42.9
Relative Employment*c:  44.1

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.0
Relative Employment*c:  34.4

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
24.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  37

Location
Mississippi

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  37.4
Relative Employment*c:  39.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  92.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.3
Relative Employment*c:  30.4

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
26.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  38

Location
Vermont

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  98.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  54.5
Relative Employment*c:  55.4

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.9
Relative Employment*c:  42.3

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
26.8**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  39

Location
Wisconsin

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  55.7
Relative Employment*c:  57.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  42.6
Relative Employment*c:  43.8

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
27.0
Ranked by Percentage Change:  40

Location
Michigan

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  93.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.0
Relative Employment*c:  46.9

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.7
Relative Employment*c:  35.3

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
28.2**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  41

Location
Kansas

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  61.1
Relative Employment*c:  62.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  45.7
Relative Employment*c:  47.1

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
28.2**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  42

Location
Iowa

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  62.1
Relative Employment*c:  63.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  46.1
Relative Employment*c:  47.3

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
29.1**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  43

Location
Oklahoma

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  48.6
Relative Employment*c:  51.4

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.4
Relative Employment*c:  38.2

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
29.5**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  44

Location
Rhode Island

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.0
Relative Employment*c:  44.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.1
Relative Employment*c:  31.5

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
34.5**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  45

Location
Massachusetts

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  49.6
Relative Employment*c:  51.2

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  95.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.6
Relative Employment*c:  35.4

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
36.5**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  46

Location
Louisiana

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.9
Relative Employment*c:  43.2

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  93.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  26.4
Relative Employment*c:  28.3

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
41.9**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  47

Location
Virginia

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.1
Relative Employment*c:  45.1

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  27.7
Relative Employment*c:  28.8

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
44.2**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  48

Location
Arkansas

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  96.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.8
Relative Employment*c:  42.4

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  25.0
Relative Employment*c:  26.5

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
46.2**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  49

Location
West Virginia

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  92.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  31.9
Relative Employment*c:  34.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  93.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  18.8
Relative Employment*c:  20.2

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
52.8**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  50

Location
Connecticut

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  97.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  64.8
Relative Employment*c:  66.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  94.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.9
Relative Employment*c:  36.8

Percentage Change  in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
57.6**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  51

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1986 
through 1990 and 1995 through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  Individuals who report that they worked at least 52 hours annually in the 
previous calendar year, the "employment year," at civilian jobs or businesses, 
including temporary, part-time, or seasonal work are considered to have been 
employed.

c.  Relative employment is defined as the employment of those with disabilities 
as a percentage of the employment of those without a disability. 

d.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

e.  The percentage change is the difference between the two averages divided by 
the average of the two averages multiplied by 100.  Double asterisks (**) note 
locations where difference between those without and with a disability in the 
change the employment rate from  period to period is statistically different 
than zero, assuming a 90 percent confidence level.



Table 4b.  Women: Employment and Relative Employment Rates of Non-
Institutionalized Civilian Women Aged 25 through 61 for the United States, and 
for Each State and the District of Columbia over the Five-Year Growth Periods of 
the 1980s and 1990s Business Cycles, Percentage Changes, and Rankings, by 
Disability Status*a 

Location
United States

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  75.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.4
Relative Employment*c:  45.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.1
Relative Employment*c:  41.3

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
10.1**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  --

Location
South Dakota

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  82.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.2
Relative Employment*c:  53.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  89.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  58.3
Relative Employment*c:  65.1

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  19.3
Ranked by Percentage Change:  1

Location
Vermont

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  83.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.2
Relative Employment*c:  51.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  86.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  53.8
Relative Employment*c:  62.1

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  18.7
Ranked by Percentage Change:  2

Location
Oklahoma

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  32.1
Relative Employment*c:  40.8

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  77.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  37.0
Relative Employment*c:  47.5

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  15.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  3

Location
Illinois

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  72.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  26.4
Relative Employment*c:  36.2

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  81.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.3
Relative Employment*c:  40.9

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  12.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  4

Location
Georgia

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.0
Relative Employment*c:  37.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.5
Relative Employment*c:  42.0

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  11.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  5

Location
Utah

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  74.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  42.3
Relative Employment*c:  57.1

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  48.9
Relative Employment*c:  62.1

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  8.4
Ranked by Percentage Change:  6

Location
Tennessee

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  75.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  25.1
Relative Employment*c:  33.3

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  29.2
Relative Employment*c:  36.2

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  8.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  7

Location
Missouri

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  77.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.0
Relative Employment*c:  48.9

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  86.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  45.0
Relative Employment*c:  52.1

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  6.3
Ranked by Percentage Change:  8

Location
New Hampshire

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  81.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  41.2
Relative Employment*c:  50.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  84.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  43.6
Relative Employment*c:  51.4

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  1.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  9

Location
DC

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  85.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  29.5
Relative Employment*c:  34.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  82.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.7
Relative Employment*c:  34.7

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  0.8
Ranked by Percentage Change:  10

Location
North Dakota

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  47.4
Relative Employment*c:  60.4

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  88.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  54.0
Relative Employment*c:  60.7

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  0.5
Ranked by Percentage Change:  11

Location
New Mexico

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  72.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  32.8
Relative Employment*c:  45.3

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  74.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.8
Relative Employment*c:  45.3

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  0.0
Ranked by Percentage Change:  12

Location
Virginia

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.8
Relative Employment*c:  36.9

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  29.8
Relative Employment*c:  36.8

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -0.3
Ranked by Percentage Change:  13

Location
Louisiana

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  66.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  20.4
Relative Employment*c:  30.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  76.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  23.4
Relative Employment*c:  30.4

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -1.0
Ranked by Percentage Change:  14

Location
Arizona

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  74.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  39.0
Relative Employment*c:  52.4

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  75.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  39.1
Relative Employment*c:  51.7

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -1.3
Ranked by Percentage Change:  15

Location
Maine

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.2
Relative Employment*c:  43.8

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  85.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.7
Relative Employment*c:  42.9

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -2.1
Ranked by Percentage Change:  16

Location
Maryland

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  81.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.8
Relative Employment*c:  45.4

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  85.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  37.8
Relative Employment*c:  44.4

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -2.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  17

Location
Oregon

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  77.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  39.9
Relative Employment*c:  51.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  82.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  41.2
Relative Employment*c:  50.2

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -2.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  18

Location
New York

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  69.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  27.2
Relative Employment*c:  39.0

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  74.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.2
Relative Employment*c:  38.0

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -2.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  19

Location
Washington

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  76.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  39.9
Relative Employment*c:  52.0

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  81.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.3
Relative Employment*c:  49.6

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -4.8
Ranked by Percentage Change:  20

Location
Wyoming

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  77.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.4
Relative Employment*c:  57.1

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  82.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  44.5
Relative Employment*c:  54.2

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -5.1
Ranked by Percentage Change:  21

Location
Hawaii

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  77.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.3
Relative Employment*c:  52.3

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  84.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  42.0
Relative Employment*c:  49.5

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -5.5
Ranked by Percentage Change:  22

Location
Iowa

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  48.1
Relative Employment*c:  60.0

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  88.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  49.8
Relative Employment*c:  56.1

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -6.8
Ranked by Percentage Change:  23

Location
Mississippi

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  73.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  23.8
Relative Employment*c:  32.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  24.0
Relative Employment*c:  30.4

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -6.8
Ranked by Percentage Change:  24

Location
Minnesota

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  84.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  59.5
Relative Employment*c:  70.4

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  87.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  57.1
Relative Employment*c:  65.6

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -7.1
Ranked by Percentage Change:  25

Location
South Carolina

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  77.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  31.4
Relative Employment*c:  40.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.0
Relative Employment*c:  37.4

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -7.9
Ranked by Percentage Change:  26

Location
Nebraska

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  42.6
Relative Employment*c:  53.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  86.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  42.1
Relative Employment*c:  48.6

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -9.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  27

Location
Michigan

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  72.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.9
Relative Employment*c:  42.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.4
Relative Employment*c:  37.8

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
11.7**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  28

Location
California

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  74.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  39.4
Relative Employment*c:  53.3

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  75.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  35.2
Relative Employment*c:  46.9

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
12.8
Ranked by Percentage Change:  29

Location
Pennsylvania

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  71.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.6
Relative Employment*c:  39.8

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  27.9
Relative Employment*c:  34.8

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
13.5**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  30

Location
Idaho

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  77.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  42.6
Relative Employment*c:  55.0

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  84.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.4
Relative Employment*c:  48.0

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
13.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  31

Location
Kentucky

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  70.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  26.2
Relative Employment*c:  37.2

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  25.1
Relative Employment*c:  31.9

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
15.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  32

Location
Texas

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  74.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  38.5
Relative Employment*c:  51.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.5
Relative Employment*c:  44.1

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
15.9**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  33

Location
Ohio

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  72.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.4
Relative Employment*c:  41.9

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.5
Relative Employment*c:  35.7

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
16.0**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  34

Location
Delaware

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  32.7
Relative Employment*c:  40.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  84.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  29.0
Relative Employment*c:  34.3

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
16.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  35

Location
Massachusetts

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  35.6
Relative Employment*c:  44.8

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  83.6
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  31.5
Relative Employment*c:  37.7

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
17.2**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  36

Location
Wisconsin

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  49.8
Relative Employment*c:  62.2

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  89.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  46.4
Relative Employment*c:  51.9

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
18.2
Ranked by Percentage Change:  37

Location
Kansas

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  45.2
Relative Employment*c:  56.0

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  85.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  39.7
Relative Employment*c:  46.6

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
18.3
Ranked by Percentage Change:  38

Location
Connecticut

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  81.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  47.8
Relative Employment*c:  58.4

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  82.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.1
Relative Employment*c:  48.5

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
18.6
Ranked by Percentage Change:  39

Location
Indiana

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  77.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.5
Relative Employment*c:  47.3

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  85.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  33.1
Relative Employment*c:  38.9

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
19.5
Ranked by Percentage Change:  40

Location
Colorado

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  49.3
Relative Employment*c:  61.8

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  84.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  42.1
Relative Employment*c:  49.7

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
21.7
Ranked by Percentage Change:  41

Location
Florida

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  76.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  37.2
Relative Employment*c:  48.5

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.1
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  30.0
Relative Employment*c:  37.9

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
24.7**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  42

Location
North Carolina

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  81.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.8
Relative Employment*c:  42.7

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  83.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  27.9
Relative Employment*c:  33.3

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
24.9**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  43

Location
Alabama

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  70.8
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  27.7
Relative Employment*c:  39.1

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  81.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  24.6
Relative Employment*c:  30.2

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
25.6**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  44

Location
Arkansas

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  75.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  34.6
Relative Employment*c:  45.8

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  82.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  28.4
Relative Employment*c:  34.5

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
28.2**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  45

Location
West Virginia

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  59.9
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  18.7
Relative Employment*c:  31.3

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  72.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  16.8
Relative Employment*c:  23.1

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
29.9**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  46

Location
New Jersey

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  75.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  37.7
Relative Employment*c:  50.1

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  29.0
Relative Employment*c:  36.9

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
30.4**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  47

Location
Montana

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  79.2
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  51.2
Relative Employment*c:  64.6

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  85.5
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  40.4
Relative Employment*c:  47.2

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
31.2**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  48

Location
Alaska

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.7
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  52.9
Relative Employment*c:  67.2

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  82.0
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  39.7
Relative Employment*c:  48.4

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
32.6**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  49

Location
Nevada

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  51.6
Relative Employment*c:  64.2

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  80.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  36.9
Relative Employment*c:  46.0

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
33.1**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  50

Location
Rhode Island

Employment Years 1985-1989
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  78.4
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  45.4
Relative Employment*c:  57.9

Employment Years 1994-1998
Employment Rate*b, Without Disability:  84.3
Employment Rate*b, With Disability:  23.8
Relative Employment*c:  28.2

Percentage Change in Relative Employment from 1985-1989 to 1994-1998*d,*e:  -
68.9**
Ranked by Percentage Change:  51

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1986 
through 1990 and 1995 through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  Individuals who report that they worked at least 52 hours annually in the 
previous calendar year, the "employment year," at civilian jobs or businesses, 
including temporary, part-time, or seasonal work are considered to have been 
employed.

c.  Relative employment is defined as the employment of those with disabilities 
as a percentage of the employment of those without a disability. 

d.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

e.  The percentage change is the difference between the two averages divided by 
the average of the two averages multiplied by 100.  Double asterisks (**) note 
locations where difference between those without and with a disability in the 
change the employment rate from  period to period is statistically different 
than zero, assuming a 90 percent confidence level.


Appendix Table 1a.  Employment Rates of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men 
without a Disability Aged 25 through 61 for the United States, and for Each 
State and the District of Columbia, Employment Years 1980 through 1998*a,*b

Location
United States
Employment Year
1980:  96.7
1981:  96.4
1982:  95.1
1983:  94.7
1984*c:  95.7
1985:  95.7
1986:  96.1
1987:  95.7
1988:  95.8
1989:  96.1
1990:  95.9
1991:  95.4
1992:  94.8
1993*c:  94.5
1994:  94.8
1995:  94.8
1996:  94.9
1997:  95.2
1998:  95.1

Location
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  96.8
1981:  97.1
1982:  93.4
1983:  94.3
1984*c:  95.3
1985:  93.0
1986:  96.9
1987:  95.3
1988:  96.2
1989:  95.1
1990:  92.9
1991:  94.8
1992:  95.0
1993*c:  94.9
1994:  94.5
1995:  95.6
1996:  95.1
1997:  93.8
1998:  96.2

Location
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  96.6
1981:  93.8
1982:  96.2
1983:  95.7
1984*c:  96.3
1985:  97.2
1986:  93.6
1987:  94.4
1988:  95.4
1989:  96.1
1990:  96.6
1991:  94.9
1992:  96.2
1993*c:  93.3
1994:  95.9
1995:  94.9
1996:  95.8
1997:  95.8
1998:  95.4

Location
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  96.9
1981:  97.7
1982:  95.4
1983:  96.8
1984*c:  94.7
1985:  95.4
1986:  96.4
1987:  95.0
1988:  94.9
1989:  96.4
1990:  97.0
1991:  95.5
1992:  95.1
1993*c:  94.9
1994:  95.3
1995:  94.3
1996:  93.5
1997:  93.9
1998:  94.1

Location
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  95.4
1981:  96.9
1982:  96.4
1983:  95.7
1984*c:  94.7
1985:  97.5
1986:  96.0
1987:  96.4
1988:  95.5
1989:  95.7
1990:  93.8
1991:  97.6
1992:  97.6
1993*c:  94.8
1994:  95.1
1995:  96.3
1996:  94.4
1997:  91.6
1998:  94.9

Location
California
Employment Year
1980:  96.2
1981:  95.5
1982:  93.8
1983:  93.7
1984*c:  95.5
1985:  95.4
1986:  95.9
1987:  94.7
1988:  95.0
1989:  96.3
1990:  95.5
1991:  94.1
1992:  93.3
1993*c:  91.6
1994:  92.8
1995:  92.8
1996:  92.7
1997:  93.9
1998:  93.7

Location
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  98.7
1981:  98.4
1982:  96.6
1983:  97.1
1984*c:  98.2
1985:  97.7
1986:  95.4
1987:  96.2
1988:  96.2
1989:  96.1
1990:  97.0
1991:  97.2
1992:  95.9
1993*c:  97.0
1994:  96.3
1995:  96.3
1996:  95.3
1997:  97.3
1998:  97.2

Location
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  98.5
1981:  95.9
1982:  97.9
1983:  98.2
1984*c:  98.7
1985:  98.0
1986:  98.3
1987:  97.2
1988:  97.9
1989:  95.7
1990:  96.5
1991:  95.0
1992:  94.2
1993*c:  96.0
1994:  95.6
1995:  95.2
1996:  93.7
1997:  94.3
1998:  95.1

Location
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  96.3
1981:  97.8
1982:  97.2
1983:  95.2
1984*c:  95.4
1985:  97.0
1986:  97.2
1987:  96.7
1988:  96.6
1989:  96.0
1990:  97.1
1991:  95.6
1992:  96.4
1993*c:  97.2
1994:  98.0
1995:  96.7
1996:  94.7
1997:  98.5
1998:  95.6

Location
DC
Employment Year
1980:  90.5
1981:  90.7
1982:  88.0
1983:  85.5
1984*c:  90.6
1985:  88.1
1986:  95.4
1987:  97.0
1988:  93.7
1989:  92.2
1990:  90.1
1991:  92.9
1992:  88.0
1993*c:  87.8
1994:  86.2
1995:  85.9
1996:  88.2
1997:  86.7
1998:  91.5

Location
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  96.4
1981:  94.2
1982:  94.5
1983:  94.5
1984*c:  95.7
1985:  96.0
1986:  96.5
1987:  96.6
1988:  95.1
1989:  96.1
1990:  94.9
1991:  95.7
1992:  95.0
1993*c:  93.5
1994:  94.6
1995:  93.9
1996:  93.6
1997:  94.4
1998:  94.8

Location
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  97.5
1981:  97.5
1982:  96.2
1983:  96.0
1984*c:  96.7
1985:  97.3
1986:  98.1
1987:  98.2
1988:  96.4
1989:  96.6
1990:  96.3
1991:  95.4
1992:  96.3
1993*c:  96.6
1994:  96.3
1995:  95.2
1996:  94.9
1997:  96.3
1998:  97.4

Location
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  96.9
1981:  94.8
1982:  92.9
1983:  95.1
1984*c:  95.1
1985:  95.1
1986:  94.0
1987:  92.6
1988:  92.2
1989:  95.5
1990:  96.5
1991:  96.5
1992:  95.5
1993*c:  91.2
1994:  93.7
1995:  91.8
1996:  92.5
1997:  88.7
1998:  92.3

Location
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  98.3
1981:  96.8
1982:  96.2
1983:  97.6
1984*c:  96.4
1985:  97.4
1986:  96.8
1987:  98.0
1988:  98.5
1989:  98.1
1990:  97.9
1991:  97.4
1992:  97.3
1993*c:  96.8
1994:  98.4
1995:  96.4
1996:  97.3
1997:  97.3
1998:  97.5

Location
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  96.2
1981:  97.4
1982:  95.9
1983:  94.0
1984*c:  95.8
1985:  94.1
1986:  95.0
1987:  94.7
1988:  94.7
1989:  95.2
1990:  96.7
1991:  94.1
1992:  93.5
1993*c:  93.7
1994:  95.1
1995:  94.8
1996:  95.2
1997:  95.0
1998:  95.8

Location
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  96.2
1981:  94.8
1982:  96.4
1983:  95.2
1984*c:  95.1
1985:  96.0
1986:  94.8
1987:  95.6
1988:  95.0
1989:  94.4
1990:  98.0
1991:  96.0
1992:  96.6
1993*c:  97.2
1994:  95.8
1995:  95.3
1996:  95.8
1997:  96.5
1998:  96.8

Location
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  98.1
1981:  96.9
1982:  95.0
1983:  96.0
1984*c:  95.6
1985:  96.6
1986:  97.4
1987:  98.6
1988:  98.5
1989:  97.7
1990:  97.4
1991:  98.6
1992:  98.5
1993*c:  95.6
1994:  97.6
1995:  97.7
1996:  97.4
1997:  97.4
1998:  97.2

Location
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  98.0
1981:  97.4
1982:  98.0
1983:  95.5
1984*c:  97.5
1985:  97.8
1986:  98.3
1987:  96.8
1988:  98.6
1989:  96.6
1990:  98.0
1991:  99.3
1992:  98.2
1993*c:  98.8
1994:  95.9
1995:  96.8
1996:  97.9
1997:  97.3
1998:  96.8

Location
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  96.6
1981:  96.3
1982:  95.4
1983:  95.3
1984*c:  95.0
1985:  94.7
1986:  96.5
1987:  95.6
1988:  94.1
1989:  96.6
1990:  96.0
1991:  95.1
1992:  96.0
1993*c:  95.3
1994:  94.5
1995:  94.3
1996:  96.7
1997:  96.4
1998:  94.4

Location
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  98.3
1981:  98.1
1982:  95.0
1983:  92.6
1984*c:  94.4
1985:  94.2
1986:  95.8
1987:  94.3
1988:  95.8
1989:  92.5
1990:  95.8
1991:  94.2
1992:  95.5
1993*c:  94.7
1994:  93.9
1995:  93.0
1996:  93.0
1997:  93.9
1998:  92.6

Location
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  95.4
1981:  96.8
1982:  96.1
1983:  95.5
1984*c:  98.3
1985:  97.2
1986:  95.8
1987:  94.5
1988:  98.0
1989:  97.1
1990:  97.3
1991:  95.0
1992:  96.3
1993*c:  95.4
1994:  96.7
1995:  95.4
1996:  95.2
1997:  95.0
1998:  96.7

Location
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  96.4
1981:  96.6
1982:  93.6
1983:  93.4
1984*c:  96.6
1985:  96.5
1986:  97.0
1987:  96.2
1988:  97.3
1989:  97.6
1990:  96.3
1991:  96.6
1992:  92.7
1993*c:  95.4
1994:  93.8
1995:  94.5
1996:  94.2
1997:  96.4
1998:  93.0

Location
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  97.5
1981:  96.2
1982:  95.9
1983:  97.5
1984*c:  96.2
1985:  96.7
1986:  97.3
1987:  96.2
1988:  96.9
1989:  97.4
1990:  94.9
1991:  93.9
1992:  95.2
1993*c:  95.2
1994:  93.5
1995:  93.9
1996:  95.6
1997:  96.2
1998:  96.0

Location
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  95.2
1981:  94.1
1982:  92.6
1983:  91.2
1984*c:  92.4
1985:  93.7
1986:  94.0
1987:  94.1
1988:  94.0
1989:  93.9
1990:  93.1
1991:  95.0
1992:  95.2
1993*c:  94.3
1994:  93.4
1995:  95.4
1996:  97.1
1997:  95.3
1998:  96.4

Location
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  97.9
1981:  97.6
1982:  97.4
1983:  96.4
1984*c:  98.3
1985:  98.5
1986:  98.5
1987:  97.0
1988:  96.7
1989:  97.5
1990:  98.6
1991:  97.7
1992:  98.1
1993*c:  97.7
1994:  97.6
1995:  97.2
1996:  97.7
1997:  97.1
1998:  95.6

Location
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  98.0
1981:  97.5
1982:  95.5
1983:  93.4
1984*c:  96.5
1985:  93.3
1986:  93.8
1987:  94.0
1988:  95.9
1989:  95.1
1990:  95.4
1991:  95.3
1992:  96.6
1993*c:  97.6
1994:  95.0
1995:  90.4
1996:  94.7
1997:  92.8
1998:  91.7

Location
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  95.9
1981:  97.0
1982:  95.1
1983:  94.9
1984*c:  96.8
1985:  96.3
1986:  96.3
1987:  94.8
1988:  95.1
1989:  95.6
1990:  96.2
1991:  96.0
1992:  94.3
1993*c:  96.4
1994:  92.0
1995:  96.5
1996:  94.9
1997:  95.0
1998:  96.7

Location
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  97.8
1981:  97.6
1982:  95.4
1983:  97.0
1984*c:  97.9
1985:  95.5
1986:  96.8
1987:  95.7
1988:  96.5
1989:  96.1
1990:  96.6
1991:  96.9
1992:  96.0
1993*c:  97.3
1994:  94.3
1995:  94.7
1996:  96.8
1997:  96.1
1998:  95.7

Location
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  98.7
1981:  98.9
1982:  97.9
1983:  99.4
1984*c:  99.0
1985:  98.1
1986:  97.5
1987:  97.8
1988:  96.5
1989:  97.7
1990:  98.0
1991:  96.2
1992:  98.7
1993*c:  98.8
1994:  97.3
1995:  98.6
1996:  97.2
1997:  97.9
1998:  96.7

Location
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  98.4
1981:  98.3
1982:  97.3
1983:  93.7
1984*c:  97.4
1985:  95.6
1986:  97.3
1987:  94.5
1988:  96.6
1989:  95.5
1990:  98.3
1991:  96.7
1992:  94.3
1993*c:  96.8
1994:  94.8
1995:  95.9
1996:  91.4
1997:  95.0
1998:  94.1

Location
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  99.0
1981:  98.4
1982:  98.2
1983:  97.8
1984*c:  98.5
1985:  96.9
1986:  99.0
1987:  97.7
1988:  97.7
1989:  97.9
1990:  97.5
1991:  97.3
1992:  96.8
1993*c:  95.5
1994:  96.5
1995:  98.0
1996:  97.9
1997:  96.8
1998:  96.7

Location
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  96.6
1981:  97.8
1982:  96.4
1983:  96.9
1984*c:  97.2
1985:  97.1
1986:  98.1
1987:  97.6
1988:  96.3
1989:  96.9
1990:  97.1
1991:  95.6
1992:  93.5
1993*c:  92.7
1994:  94.8
1995:  94.2
1996:  95.6
1997:  94.5
1998:  96.5

Location
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  96.1
1981:  96.6
1982:  93.9
1983:  94.6
1984*c:  93.3
1985:  95.1
1986:  96.0
1987:  94.6
1988:  92.9
1989:  95.2
1990:  93.8
1991:  95.4
1992:  92.4
1993*c:  93.7
1994:  94.8
1995:  90.9
1996:  92.6
1997:  94.7
1998:  92.8

Location
New York
Employment Year
1980:  95.0
1981:  96.4
1982:  94.3
1983:  93.7
1984*c:  94.3
1985:  95.0
1986:  94.4
1987:  94.7
1988:  95.1
1989:  94.7
1990:  94.9
1991:  93.3
1992:  92.2
1993*c:  90.7
1994:  92.3
1995:  91.5
1996:  92.3
1997:  92.7
1998:  92.8

Location
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  97.2
1981:  97.4
1982:  93.2
1983:  96.4
1984*c:  96.2
1985:  96.2
1986:  97.1
1987:  97.0
1988:  96.2
1989:  96.9
1990:  96.7
1991:  96.8
1992:  95.6
1993*c:  96.1
1994:  95.5
1995:  96.3
1996:  95.8
1997:  97.4
1998:  95.5

Location
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  98.6
1981:  97.6
1982:  97.6
1983:  97.1
1984*c:  97.4
1985:  97.3
1986:  97.2
1987:  97.8
1988:  98.2
1989:  98.4
1990:  95.5
1991:  96.4
1992:  98.2
1993*c:  97.9
1994:  99.0
1995:  97.3
1996:  98.2
1997:  98.2
1998:  95.8

Location
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  97.5
1981:  95.4
1982:  93.9
1983:  93.4
1984*c:  94.6
1985:  95.2
1986:  95.3
1987:  95.9
1988:  95.5
1989:  96.1
1990:  96.1
1991:  95.3
1992:  94.8
1993*c:  95.5
1994:  96.3
1995:  96.4
1996:  96.1
1997:  96.4
1998:  96.2

Location
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  97.9
1981:  97.8
1982:  97.7
1983:  94.9
1984*c:  98.0
1985:  95.2
1986:  94.0
1987:  94.9
1988:  92.6
1989:  96.3
1990:  95.6
1991:  95.1
1992:  96.3
1993*c:  96.3
1994:  93.7
1995:  96.8
1996:  96.8
1997:  95.2
1998:  93.6

Location
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  96.8
1981:  96.6
1982:  96.3
1983:  95.2
1984*c:  93.9
1985:  92.5
1986:  93.8
1987:  95.7
1988:  97.2
1989:  95.9
1990:  95.9
1991:  95.7
1992:  95.9
1993*c:  93.9
1994:  94.3
1995:  97.9
1996:  96.8
1997:  96.2
1998:  94.2

Location
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  96.3
1981:  96.0
1982:  93.0
1983:  91.7
1984*c:  95.3
1985:  95.9
1986:  95.6
1987:  94.5
1988:  96.2
1989:  95.7
1990:  95.2
1991:  95.8
1992:  93.4
1993*c:  93.1
1994:  95.7
1995:  95.8
1996:  96.1
1997:  95.7
1998:  96.0

Location
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  98.4
1981:  97.2
1982:  95.1
1983:  95.0
1984*c:  96.2
1985:  97.5
1986:  96.0
1987:  93.4
1988:  98.1
1989:  96.7
1990:  94.6
1991:  95.4
1992:  93.9
1993*c:  94.5
1994:  93.2
1995:  95.4
1996:  95.7
1997:  97.0
1998:  96.2

Location
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  92.3
1981:  96.0
1982:  93.9
1983:  94.4
1984*c:  97.2
1985:  95.9
1986:  97.0
1987:  96.8
1988:  96.9
1989:  98.1
1990:  94.7
1991:  95.7
1992:  94.6
1993*c:  93.2
1994:  95.0
1995:  92.4
1996:  96.0
1997:  97.3
1998:  96.2

Location
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  97.9
1981:  97.4
1982:  96.7
1983:  97.0
1984*c:  97.4
1985:  96.7
1986:  97.2
1987:  97.8
1988:  97.9
1989:  96.4
1990:  97.8
1991:  97.6
1992:  96.3
1993*c:  95.9
1994:  97.5
1995:  98.2
1996:  96.5
1997:  93.7
1998:  98.2

Location
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  96.0
1981:  95.6
1982:  93.8
1983:  92.5
1984*c:  94.1
1985:  96.8
1986:  95.7
1987:  95.9
1988:  94.0
1989:  95.0
1990:  97.1
1991:  95.0
1992:  92.8
1993*c:  95.6
1994:  96.5
1995:  93.8
1996:  93.8
1997:  94.6
1998:  92.9

Location
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  97.7
1981:  97.7
1982:  96.3
1983:  96.4
1984*c:  96.7
1985:  96.4
1986:  96.0
1987:  96.6
1988:  96.5
1989:  97.1
1990:  96.3
1991:  96.5
1992:  95.6
1993*c:  95.8
1994:  96.0
1995:  96.4
1996:  95.4
1997:  95.9
1998:  95.5

Location
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  97.9
1981:  98.8
1982:  97.0
1983:  97.1
1984*c:  96.8
1985:  97.6
1986:  97.9
1987:  96.4
1988:  95.8
1989:  97.1
1990:  98.0
1991:  98.6
1992:  97.8
1993*c:  98.0
1994:  97.3
1995:  96.6
1996:  96.7
1997:  97.5
1998:  97.0

Location
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  97.7
1981:  99.1
1982:  97.6
1983:  97.7
1984*c:  95.6
1985:  99.0
1986:  97.6
1987:  98.8
1988:  97.7
1989:  98.9
1990:  96.4
1991:  97.1
1992:  96.5
1993*c:  97.1
1994:  95.7
1995:  97.2
1996:  94.8
1997:  97.7
1998:  98.5

Location
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  98.1
1981:  96.0
1982:  97.4
1983:  96.8
1984*c:  97.7
1985:  96.9
1986:  98.2
1987:  97.6
1988:  98.0
1989:  97.9
1990:  96.3
1991:  96.8
1992:  96.5
1993*c:  97.1
1994:  98.5
1995:  95.0
1996:  95.3
1997:  97.2
1998:  95.2

Location
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  97.9
1981:  97.2
1982:  96.1
1983:  96.2
1984*c:  94.2
1985:  96.0
1986:  96.7
1987:  96.5
1988:  96.9
1989:  96.3
1990:  96.9
1991:  94.4
1992:  95.1
1993*c:  95.2
1994:  95.4
1995:  95.8
1996:  96.5
1997:  93.6
1998:  96.0

Location
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  96.7
1981:  95.9
1982:  94.1
1983:  87.1
1984*c:  91.3
1985:  90.2
1986:  90.8
1987:  91.5
1988:  93.6
1989:  93.7
1990:  90.9
1991:  92.1
1992:  90.2
1993*c:  90.8
1994:  93.5
1995:  93.3
1996:  92.3
1997:  92.0
1998:  93.8

Location
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  98.3
1981:  97.3
1982:  96.1
1983:  96.0
1984*c:  95.1
1985:  95.6
1986:  97.1
1987:  95.7
1988:  97.8
1989:  97.9
1990:  98.3
1991:  97.4
1992:  97.8
1993*c:  97.4
1994:  97.3
1995:  97.5
1996:  99.0
1997:  97.5
1998:  95.1

Location
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  99.0
1981:  98.1
1982:  97.8
1983:  96.0
1984*c:  97.0
1985:  98.9
1986:  98.2
1987:  97.5
1988:  96.4
1989:  97.1
1990:  98.7
1991:  96.5
1992:  98.3
1993*c:  94.4
1994:  97.0
1995:  98.2
1996:  97.4
1997:  95.9
1998:  96.5

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  Individuals who report that they worked at least 52 hours annually in the 
previous calendar year, the "employment year," at civilian jobs or businesses, 
including temporary, part-time, or seasonal work are considered to have been 
employed.

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.



Appendix Table 1b.  Employment Rates of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men with 
a Disability Aged 25 through 61 for the United States, and for Each State and 
the District of Columbia, Employment Years 1980 through 1998a,b

Location 
United States
Employment Year
1980:  42.6
1981:  44.8
1982:  41.7
1983:  39.7
1984*c:  40.4
1985:  42.8
1986:  43.8
1987:  43.0
1988:  42.9
1989:  44.0
1990:  42.1
1991:  41.5
1992:  41.6
1993*c:  37.2
1994:  38.0
1995:  34.9
1996:  38.2
1997:  35.5
1998:  34.4

Location 
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  31.9
1981:  28.4
1982:  17.5
1983:  29.9
1984*c:  34.7
1985:  26.9
1986:  15.8
1987:  26.6
1988:  26.5
1989:  35.2
1990:  26.0
1991:  23.3
1992:  22.5
1993*c:  32.6
1994:  20.7
1995:  36.1
1996:  31.1
1997:  19.7
1998:  36.6

Location 
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  50.7
1981:  48.6
1982:  51.9
1983:  66.3
1984*c:  51.5
1985:  72.8
1986:  51.2
1987:  50.7
1988:  54.5
1989:  50.1
1990:  38.0
1991:  54.6
1992:  74.8
1993*c:  61.9
1994:  46.4
1995:  53.3
1996:  62.9
1997:  36.2
1998:  51.3

Location 
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  57.4
1981:  51.9
1982:  57.9
1983:  54.7
1984*c:  48.0
1985:  39.6
1986:  50.7
1987:  45.7
1988:  32.1
1989:  49.8
1990:  47.6
1991:  66.1
1992:  60.1
1993*c:  56.9
1994:  44.7
1995:  43.0
1996:  47.6
1997:  32.9
1998:  32.1

Location 
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  39.0
1981:  38.6
1982:  40.2
1983:  55.0
1984*c:  30.1
1985:  35.2
1986:  39.1
1987:  43.6
1988:  46.6
1989:  39.7
1990:  34.2
1991:  34.1
1992:  36.2
1993*c:  29.4
1994:  19.0
1995:  21.1
1996:  25.1
1997:  24.6
1998:  35.5

Location 
California
Employment Year
1980:  42.9
1981:  44.9
1982:  43.6
1983:  38.4
1984*c:  40.2
1985:  47.7
1986:  39.1
1987:  45.4
1988:  42.2
1989:  36.1
1990:  39.8
1991:  41.1
1992:  38.1
1993*c:  44.0
1994:  43.5
1995:  29.7
1996:  32.8
1997:  44.4
1998:  31.1

Location 
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  34.5
1981:  59.4
1982:  64.2
1983:  52.4
1984*c:  65.5
1985:  79.2
1986:  69.1
1987:  62.7
1988:  58.2
1989:  38.3
1990:  42.8
1991:  54.6
1992:  49.5
1993*c:  45.8
1994:  44.5
1995:  66.3
1996:  39.4
1997:  52.2
1998:  57.3

Location 
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  67.4
1981:  85.8
1982:  47.0
1983:  59.0
1984*c:  46.1
1985:  69.9
1986:  59.1
1987:  76.5
1988:  58.7
1989:  59.9
1990:  58.2
1991:  49.5
1992:  72.8
1993*c:  63.3
1994:  32.9
1995:  26.5
1996:  53.4
1997:  31.6
1998:  29.9

Location 
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  49.7
1981:  49.9
1982:  33.4
1983:  54.9
1984*c:  27.8
1985:  33.6
1986:  35.7
1987:  37.6
1988:  52.4
1989:  61.5
1990:  45.2
1991:  41.8
1992:  40.6
1993*c:  57.8
1994:  51.0
1995:  28.9
1996:  56.1
1997:  29.7
1998:  40.1

Location 
DC
Employment Year
1980:  29.5
1981:  10.9
1982:  20.2
1983:  28.6
1984*c:  37.6
1985:  24.4
1986:  32.8
1987:  51.8
1988:  26.1
1989:  36.9
1990:  33.4
1991:  31.1
1992:  42.4
1993*c:  31.0
1994:  40.9
1995:  36.4
1996:  37.4
1997:  11.9
1998:  22.3

Location 
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  39.5
1981:  46.5
1982:  37.5
1983:  40.1
1984*c:  33.9
1985:  46.2
1986:  41.1
1987:  50.1
1988:  41.5
1989:  46.4
1990:  41.2
1991:  40.5
1992:  38.6
1993*c:  45.1
1994:  38.1
1995:  26.1
1996:  38.3
1997:  30.1
1998:  40.0

Location 
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  41.4
1981:  39.4
1982:  41.6
1983:  42.6
1984*c:  55.5
1985:  47.0
1986:  39.1
1987:  46.1
1988:  34.2
1989:  47.9
1990:  43.2
1991:  20.7
1992:  50.0
1993*c:  19.0
1994:  26.3
1995:  23.7
1996:  38.1
1997:  34.5
1998:  42.4

Location 
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  33.1
1981:  25.4
1982:  32.3
1983:  47.7
1984*c:  42.9
1985:  27.7
1986:  55.8
1987:  52.4
1988:  29.4
1989:  27.1
1990:  54.4
1991:  32.6
1992:  36.0
1993*c:  38.6
1994:  45.9
1995:  45.1
1996:  31.2
1997:  49.1
1998:  29.1

Location 
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  39.8
1981:  60.4
1982:  51.7
1983:  48.5
1984*c:  50.0
1985:  63.2
1986:  41.5
1987:  63.3
1988:  54.5
1989:  69.3
1990:  54.1
1991:  64.3
1992:  34.0
1993*c:  61.1
1994:  43.3
1995:  59.5
1996:  59.1
1997:  58.6
1998:  71.1

Location 
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  43.6
1981:  55.2
1982:  54.8
1983:  40.7
1984*c:  29.4
1985:  41.7
1986:  43.2
1987:  36.6
1988:  39.1
1989:  43.8
1990:  44.4
1991:  38.8
1992:  29.7
1993*c:  31.0
1994:  44.8
1995:  27.2
1996:  32.1
1997:  27.2
1998:  39.9

Location 
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  55.1
1981:  44.1
1982:  36.9
1983:  45.1
1984*c:  39.5
1985:  33.1
1986:  41.3
1987:  41.2
1988:  47.3
1989:  44.6
1990:  44.7
1991:  32.0
1992:  62.3
1993*c:  32.6
1994:  52.3
1995:  23.0
1996:  31.7
1997:  32.4
1998:  35.4

Location 
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  60.7
1981:  42.0
1982:  44.6
1983:  45.2
1984*c:  59.7
1985:  56.0
1986:  58.8
1987:  62.1
1988:  74.0
1989:  59.4
1990:  50.1
1991:  51.2
1992:  56.6
1993*c:  51.2
1994:  42.5
1995:  37.9
1996:  69.8
1997:  54.3
1998:  26.2

Location 
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  64.6
1981:  52.9
1982:  41.6
1983:  47.6
1984*c:  53.9
1985:  45.7
1986:  56.0
1987:  60.1
1988:  70.5
1989:  73.2
1990:  61.9
1991:  48.5
1992:  54.3
1993*c:  30.0
1994:  21.6
1995:  53.5
1996:  46.6
1997:  49.3
1998:  57.3

Location 
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  34.7
1981:  34.6
1982:  40.1
1983:  40.2
1984*c:  28.5
1985:  30.1
1986:  40.2
1987:  12.2
1988:  40.0
1989:  48.0
1990:  33.5
1991:  20.1
1992:  31.2
1993*c:  22.3
1994:  24.5
1995:  25.9
1996:  31.5
1997:  19.9
1998:  34.7

Location 
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  34.4
1981:  34.2
1982:  25.2
1983:  28.9
1984*c:  47.5
1985:  51.6
1986:  40.5
1987:  43.4
1988:  34.5
1989:  34.3
1990:  26.2
1991:  47.1
1992:  27.5
1993*c:  20.6
1994:  27.9
1995:  35.3
1996:  30.6
1997:  19.7
1998:  18.2

Location 
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  37.4
1981:  36.7
1982:  30.5
1983:  40.0
1984*c:  39.5
1985:  31.6
1986:  60.6
1987:  49.9
1988:  44.8
1989:  46.9
1990:  45.7
1991:  42.9
1992:  36.8
1993*c:  34.0
1994:  36.7
1995:  32.6
1996:  35.1
1997:  39.1
1998:  40.8

Location 
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  32.1
1981:  48.1
1982:  42.2
1983:  50.7
1984*c:  34.7
1985:  44.5
1986:  46.9
1987:  44.4
1988:  46.7
1989:  35.6
1990:  63.1
1991:  42.1
1992:  60.9
1993*c:  40.2
1994:  55.3
1995:  27.1
1996:  64.5
1997:  50.1
1998:  34.4

Location 
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  49.0
1981:  40.6
1982:  37.7
1983:  30.8
1984*c:  48.6
1985:  49.6
1986:  52.9
1987:  49.1
1988:  50.5
1989:  45.8
1990:  48.4
1991:  36.2
1992:  44.4
1993*c:  31.3
1994:  35.9
1995:  33.2
1996:  34.7
1997:  37.9
1998:  26.5

Location 
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  48.6
1981:  48.1
1982:  48.2
1983:  52.7
1984*c:  37.3
1985:  42.9
1986:  52.0
1987:  43.6
1988:  40.4
1989:  41.1
1990:  40.1
1991:  44.3
1992:  37.3
1993*c:  34.2
1994:  41.5
1995:  39.6
1996:  33.6
1997:  27.5
1998:  26.3

Location 
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  48.1
1981:  51.5
1982:  57.5
1983:  59.6
1984*c:  52.2
1985:  65.4
1986:  62.0
1987:  51.1
1988:  63.2
1989:  76.7
1990:  79.2
1991:  70.4
1992:  77.9
1993*c:  74.8
1994:  61.0
1995:  51.7
1996:  56.4
1997:  71.7
1998:  57.1

Location 
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  32.2
1981:  33.6
1982:  38.3
1983:  27.9
1984*c:  37.9
1985:  35.3
1986:  38.4
1987:  32.0
1988:  38.4
1989:  42.9
1990:  29.5
1991:  29.4
1992:  44.0
1993*c:  32.1
1994:  29.3
1995:  38.0
1996:  25.7
1997:  29.6
1998:  18.8

Location 
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  36.6
1981:  33.5
1982:  34.8
1983:  31.7
1984*c:  33.2
1985:  47.8
1986:  53.6
1987:  47.2
1988:  47.1
1989:  55.0
1990:  59.1
1991:  46.5
1992:  42.3
1993*c:  12.8
1994:  36.9
1995:  39.6
1996:  38.2
1997:  51.8
1998:  49.8

Location 
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  70.2
1981:  49.6
1982:  63.1
1983:  46.7
1984*c:  42.0
1985:  50.6
1986:  44.6
1987:  45.1
1988:  50.6
1989:  59.0
1990:  64.6
1991:  46.4
1992:  61.1
1993*c:  51.3
1994:  59.4
1995:  54.1
1996:  52.8
1997:  46.5
1998:  51.1

Location 
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  76.1
1981:  58.5
1982:  61.2
1983:  60.2
1984*c:  67.6
1985:  50.5
1986:  55.2
1987:  57.8
1988:  52.0
1989:  48.1
1990:  48.5
1991:  58.4
1992:  60.0
1993*c:  33.7
1994:  42.4
1995:  51.3
1996:  60.4
1997:  47.7
1998:  28.0

Location 
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  56.1
1981:  54.6
1982:  40.0
1983:  36.3
1984*c:  53.6
1985:  60.0
1986:  51.9
1987:  55.7
1988:  67.4
1989:  61.1
1990:  47.8
1991:  43.4
1992:  54.2
1993*c:  48.9
1994:  52.5
1995:  49.7
1996:  57.5
1997:  48.7
1998:  42.9

Location 
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  25.0
1981:  56.0
1982:  41.0
1983:  51.6
1984*c:  28.7
1985:  35.0
1986:  55.9
1987:  74.2
1988:  56.9
1989:  75.0
1990:  57.9
1991:  65.5
1992:  48.3
1993*c:  24.4
1994:  48.6
1995:  55.6
1996:  65.9
1997:  46.4
1998:  65.4

Location 
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  35.0
1981:  42.3
1982:  42.7
1983:  27.4
1984*c:  42.5
1985:  46.1
1986:  42.1
1987:  39.9
1988:  41.6
1989:  46.1
1990:  44.8
1991:  48.3
1992:  39.6
1993*c:  46.3
1994:  30.3
1995:  38.6
1996:  35.5
1997:  22.2
1998:  39.4

Location 
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  29.6
1981:  50.4
1982:  45.7
1983:  50.0
1984*c:  35.6
1985:  41.1
1986:  46.1
1987:  43.3
1988:  41.5
1989:  29.7
1990:  28.2
1991:  22.6
1992:  30.2
1993*c:  26.4
1994:  28.3
1995:  28.6
1996:  31.8
1997:  33.6
1998:  39.6

Location 
New York
Employment Year
1980:  31.3
1981:  36.0
1982:  33.0
1983:  31.8
1984*c:  33.1
1985:  34.5
1986:  37.4
1987:  44.4
1988:  35.2
1989:  34.0
1990:  33.3
1991:  36.0
1992:  33.7
1993*c:  32.3
1994:  35.6
1995:  33.2
1996:  35.7
1997:  23.5
1998:  26.6

Location 
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  37.1
1981:  44.3
1982:  36.7
1983:  48.7
1984*c:  36.5
1985:  38.6
1986:  37.0
1987:  33.6
1988:  39.6
1989:  45.7
1990:  29.2
1991:  37.3
1992:  43.0
1993*c:  40.7
1994:  34.1
1995:  34.1
1996:  37.6
1997:  35.5
1998:  28.0

Location 
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  54.1
1981:  52.3
1982:  61.8
1983:  63.8
1984*c:  73.2
1985:  74.8
1986:  69.4
1987:  61.7
1988:  57.0
1989:  64.1
1990:  50.4
1991:  42.9
1992:  47.4
1993*c:  58.0
1994:  63.3
1995:  50.4
1996:  50.1
1997:  44.6
1998:  49.9

Location 
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  44.6
1981:  42.3
1982:  38.2
1983:  28.0
1984*c:  37.0
1985:  40.9
1986:  41.2
1987:  34.2
1988:  37.8
1989:  39.3
1990:  40.9
1991:  36.0
1992:  34.8
1993*c:  33.9
1994:  28.4
1995:  33.2
1996:  41.7
1997:  33.7
1998:  27.0

Location 
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  48.3
1981:  49.3
1982:  42.9
1983:  48.0
1984*c:  43.6
1985:  56.9
1986:  49.3
1987:  43.0
1988:  44.3
1989:  49.5
1990:  40.0
1991:  47.6
1992:  48.3
1993*c:  49.3
1994:  30.9
1995:  38.5
1996:  38.0
1997:  39.1
1998:  35.3

Location 
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  60.4
1981:  68.4
1982:  60.6
1983:  44.7
1984*c:  44.9
1985:  46.3
1986:  40.9
1987:  53.2
1988:  60.8
1989:  53.5
1990:  66.5
1991:  65.0
1992:  52.3
1993*c:  41.6
1994:  57.5
1995:  66.6
1996:  72.0
1997:  51.9
1998:  35.3

Location 
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  40.9
1981:  40.2
1982:  37.7
1983:  27.8
1984*c:  27.1
1985:  29.2
1986:  35.9
1987:  36.3
1988:  36.1
1989:  37.4
1990:  47.1
1991:  42.5
1992:  40.3
1993*c:  29.4
1994:  37.6
1995:  42.6
1996:  33.9
1997:  32.2
1998:  27.2

Location 
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  52.8
1981:  45.0
1982:  51.6
1983:  43.9
1984*c:  32.6
1985:  38.2
1986:  33.1
1987:  52.9
1988:  41.2
1989:  49.5
1990:  32.6
1991:  51.1
1992:  44.1
1993*c:  35.8
1994:  39.0
1995:  31.8
1996:  31.1
1997:  26.4
1998:  22.1

Location 
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  21.6
1981:  38.6
1982:  27.1
1983:  29.2
1984*c:  29.1
1985:  23.9
1986:  38.9
1987:  18.7
1988:  23.3
1989:  43.8
1990:  32.2
1991:  26.1
1992:  28.8
1993*c:  47.8
1994:  32.4
1995:  26.2
1996:  40.4
1997:  18.2
1998:  26.7

Location 
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  67.7
1981:  52.3
1982:  61.9
1983:  51.5
1984*c:  62.3
1985:  63.7
1986:  59.6
1987:  72.1
1988:  50.1
1989:  57.0
1990:  54.0
1991:  48.8
1992:  47.8
1993*c:  39.6
1994:  58.4
1995:  59.4
1996:  38.7
1997:  57.4
1998:  30.1

Location 
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  30.3
1981:  27.5
1982:  40.8
1983:  37.3
1984*c:  34.3
1985:  26.5
1986:  41.3
1987:  49.7
1988:  37.7
1989:  23.7
1990:  16.4
1991:  40.0
1992:  44.8
1993*c:  16.0
1994:  28.9
1995:  35.1
1996:  40.0
1997:  40.9
1998:  52.2

Location 
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  50.6
1981:  60.7
1982:  47.5
1983:  46.5
1984*c:  51.4
1985:  42.4
1986:  41.6
1987:  37.6
1988:  47.6
1989:  50.6
1990:  41.2
1991:  40.8
1992:  40.7
1993*c:  40.8
1994:  37.6
1995:  42.2
1996:  39.4
1997:  40.7
1998:  31.8

Location 
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  63.1
1981:  62.8
1982:  60.2
1983:  78.3
1984*c:  70.7
1985:  50.3
1986:  39.8
1987:  61.3
1988:  60.8
1989:  54.5
1990:  58.2
1991:  47.5
1992:  50.7
1993*c:  52.8
1994:  52.9
1995:  72.1
1996:  61.4
1997:  76.5
1998:  57.1

Location 
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  64.1
1981:  62.2
1982:  48.7
1983:  37.5
1984*c:  73.1
1985:  54.9
1986:  67.3
1987:  56.9
1988:  45.2
1989:  48.1
1990:  57.7
1991:  41.6
1992:  41.2
1993*c:  60.1
1994:  57.2
1995:  39.6
1996:  36.7
1997:  46.8
1998:  24.4

Location 
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  40.8
1981:  45.6
1982:  44.8
1983:  35.9
1984*c:  37.3
1985:  37.1
1986:  45.4
1987:  44.7
1988:  42.5
1989:  50.8
1990:  52.8
1991:  45.4
1992:  42.8
1993*c:  31.5
1994:  40.6
1995:  27.7
1996:  31.0
1997:  19.8
1998:  19.5

Location 
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  56.3
1981:  60.6
1982:  52.3
1983:  41.6
1984*c:  64.7
1985:  57.1
1986:  66.7
1987:  37.5
1988:  52.1
1989:  51.4
1990:  49.7
1991:  64.4
1992:  64.2
1993*c:  40.9
1994:  60.9
1995:  29.0
1996:  53.0
1997:  35.9
1998:  44.5

Location 
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  23.2
1981:  24.8
1982:  21.7
1983:  20.2
1984*c:  28.6
1985:  40.9
1986:  38.4
1987:  25.2
1988:  33.8
1989:  21.0
1990:  34.3
1991:  40.0
1992:  27.1
1993*c:  23.4
1994:  18.2
1995:  21.2
1996:  20.5
1997:  18.4
1998:  15.6

Location 
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  48.1
1981:  52.5
1982:  36.1
1983:  39.7
1984*c:  65.5
1985:  50.2
1986:  57.0
1987:  50.7
1988:  60.0
1989:  60.6
1990:  61.5
1991:  59.8
1992:  47.2
1993*c:  55.9
1994:  36.7
1995:  40.2
1996:  41.6
1997:  46.8
1998:  47.9

Location 
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  72.1
1981:  72.8
1982:  78.1
1983:  61.6
1984*c:  55.8
1985:  63.3
1986:  80.7
1987:  46.9
1988:  50.7
1989:  63.4
1990:  45.6
1991:  58.1
1992:  62.8
1993*c:  71.6
1994:  67.5
1995:  62.5
1996:  63.4
1997:  46.7
1998:  42.1

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  Individuals who report that they worked at least 52 hours annually in the 
previous calendar year, the "employment year," at civilian jobs or businesses, 
including temporary, part-time, or seasonal work are considered to have been 
employed.

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.


Appendix Table 1c.  Employment Rates of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women 
without a Disability Aged 25 through 61 for the United States and for Each 
State, and the District of Columbia, Employment Years 1980 through 1998a,b

Location 
United States
Employment Year
1980:  69.3
1981:  69.9
1982:  69.3
1983:  70.7
1984*c:  72.6
1985:  73.1
1986:  74.4
1987:  75.2
1988:  76.7
1989:  77.0
1990:  77.6
1991:  77.8
1992:  77.6
1993*c:  78.3
1994:  79.1
1995:  79.7
1996:  80.1
1997:  80.7
1998:  80.8

Location 
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  67.3
1981:  64.7
1982:  67.0
1983:  65.5
1984*c:  66.5
1985:  66.5
1986:  73.1
1987:  70.2
1988:  70.9
1989:  73.2
1990:  70.7
1991:  73.3
1992:  74.0
1993*c:  78.0
1994:  79.0
1995:  80.9
1996:  83.0
1997:  82.1
1998:  82.4

Location 
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  73.2
1981:  73.7
1982:  74.9
1983:  73.3
1984*c:  80.5
1985:  80.7
1986:  79.1
1987:  77.3
1988:  79.1
1989:  77.5
1990:  77.5
1991:  80.5
1992:  78.8
1993*c:  83.1
1994:  81.2
1995:  82.1
1996:  86.2
1997:  80.5
1998:  80.3

Location 
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  68.1
1981:  66.2
1982:  72.1
1983:  75.0
1984*c:  69.8
1985:  73.0
1986:  72.8
1987:  74.3
1988:  77.8
1989:  73.9
1990:  77.9
1991:  77.4
1992:  80.1
1993*c:  75.7
1994:  77.4
1995:  76.0
1996:  72.0
1997:  77.6
1998:  75.5

Location 
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  71.8
1981:  71.8
1982:  69.4
1983:  67.9
1984*c:  73.3
1985:  70.5
1986:  74.5
1987:  77.4
1988:  78.0
1989:  78.2
1990:  78.5
1991:  78.8
1992:  77.4
1993*c:  80.1
1994:  81.2
1995:  81.7
1996:  82.9
1997:  81.3
1998:  85.1

Location 
California
Employment Year
1980:  70.6
1981:  71.8
1982:  71.3
1983:  70.9
1984*c:  72.5
1985:  71.6
1986:  73.8
1987:  73.9
1988:  76.3
1989:  74.4
1990:  73.6
1991:  73.2
1992:  73.3
1993*c:  73.4
1994:  74.9
1995:  73.6
1996:  74.5
1997:  76.0
1998:  76.6

Location 
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  71.0
1981:  73.8
1982:  76.6
1983:  78.6
1984*c:  78.9
1985:  76.2
1986:  78.5
1987:  79.4
1988:  82.7
1989:  82.0
1990:  80.5
1991:  79.7
1992:  82.9
1993*c:  82.3
1994:  82.6
1995:  84.7
1996:  84.8
1997:  85.0
1998:  86.6

Location 
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  72.6
1981:  72.3
1982:  71.8
1983:  78.4
1984*c:  77.7
1985:  78.4
1986:  76.9
1987:  82.4
1988:  86.3
1989:  85.6
1990:  82.3
1991:  81.4
1992:  79.0
1993*c:  80.8
1994:  77.9
1995:  81.9
1996:  84.8
1997:  85.3
1998:  83.6

Location 
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  66.6
1981:  73.2
1982:  70.9
1983:  72.1
1984*c:  73.6
1985:  80.6
1986:  80.7
1987:  79.3
1988:  80.3
1989:  82.7
1990:  83.1
1991:  83.8
1992:  80.9
1993*c:  81.4
1994:  85.5
1995:  84.0
1996:  79.5
1997:  86.5
1998:  86.6

Location 
DC
Employment Year
1980:  82.6
1981:  80.4
1982:  82.5
1983:  83.1
1984*c:  82.1
1985:  84.0
1986:  86.7
1987:  88.4
1988:  83.6
1989:  85.8
1990:  82.4
1991:  85.7
1992:  83.6
1993*c:  77.9
1994:  84.9
1995:  84.3
1996:  79.6
1997:  81.2
1998:  83.6

Location 
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  70.9
1981:  70.0
1982:  69.3
1983:  71.8
1984*c:  72.6
1985:  73.7
1986:  76.6
1987:  78.1
1988:  77.6
1989:  77.4
1990:  79.0
1991:  79.2
1992:  79.2
1993*c:  78.2
1994:  78.2
1995:  79.1
1996:  79.3
1997:  79.6
1998:  79.4

Location 
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  74.0
1981:  73.7
1982:  72.0
1983:  74.7
1984*c:  79.9
1985:  77.5
1986:  81.0
1987:  82.8
1988:  79.2
1989:  78.9
1990:  78.5
1991:  78.4
1992:  77.6
1993*c:  80.0
1994:  80.7
1995:  79.4
1996:  79.6
1997:  79.6
1998:  80.3

Location 
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  79.2
1981:  73.9
1982:  76.9
1983:  74.0
1984*c:  75.5
1985:  77.2
1986:  77.5
1987:  78.0
1988:  75.3
1989:  77.5
1990:  79.9
1991:  78.9
1992:  80.3
1993*c:  82.0
1994:  85.6
1995:  83.0
1996:  84.8
1997:  84.8
1998:  86.2

Location 
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  73.5
1981:  71.4
1982:  70.7
1983:  74.5
1984*c:  73.5
1985:  73.1
1986:  71.5
1987:  77.8
1988:  83.2
1989:  81.9
1990:  81.8
1991:  78.8
1992:  78.5
1993*c:  84.0
1994:  85.1
1995:  84.0
1996:  85.6
1997:  81.1
1998:  84.7

Location 
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  67.9
1981:  70.0
1982:  68.6
1983:  68.4
1984*c:  70.6
1985:  70.5
1986:  73.1
1987:  71.4
1988:  74.6
1989:  74.9
1990:  77.7
1991:  77.7
1992:  78.7
1993*c:  80.0
1994:  80.3
1995:  81.7
1996:  79.8
1997:  82.9
1998:  82.7

Location 
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  72.4
1981:  66.1
1982:  71.5
1983:  68.6
1984*c:  73.8
1985:  76.1
1986:  76.9
1987:  75.9
1988:  77.8
1989:  79.2
1990:  81.0
1991:  80.3
1992:  78.9
1993*c:  78.7
1994:  82.2
1995:  87.4
1996:  86.1
1997:  85.0
1998:  84.6

Location 
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  69.1
1981:  70.5
1982:  74.3
1983:  70.6
1984*c:  73.5
1985:  75.7
1986:  79.9
1987:  79.7
1988:  82.1
1989:  83.5
1990:  83.3
1991:  85.3
1992:  83.6
1993*c:  85.2
1994:  90.2
1995:  88.2
1996:  88.2
1997:  87.6
1998:  89.4

Location 
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  75.0
1981:  74.8
1982:  75.8
1983:  75.7
1984*c:  77.5
1985:  78.1
1986:  80.3
1987:  79.4
1988:  82.8
1989:  83.1
1990:  80.8
1991:  83.6
1992:  83.8
1993*c:  85.7
1994:  83.9
1995:  83.0
1996:  86.7
1997:  85.4
1998:  86.6

Location 
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  67.5
1981:  64.1
1982:  65.1
1983:  66.4
1984*c:  68.0
1985:  68.0
1986:  68.7
1987:  69.7
1988:  71.5
1989:  74.5
1990:  78.7
1991:  73.6
1992:  77.3
1993*c:  74.5
1994:  77.0
1995:  77.4
1996:  79.1
1997:  80.2
1998:  79.3

Location 
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  63.7
1981:  64.3
1982:  65.7
1983:  65.2
1984*c:  66.3
1985:  69.0
1986:  66.6
1987:  64.6
1988:  65.3
1989:  66.1
1990:  68.3
1991:  69.8
1992:  66.0
1993*c:  70.9
1994:  71.9
1995:  80.5
1996:  78.0
1997:  78.0
1998:  75.6

Location 
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  69.9
1981:  74.2
1982:  75.4
1983:  73.4
1984*c:  76.5
1985:  80.7
1986:  76.9
1987:  75.6
1988:  77.0
1989:  80.3
1990:  80.2
1991:  82.7
1992:  82.8
1993*c:  81.6
1994:  85.8
1995:  86.2
1996:  89.1
1997:  83.5
1998:  83.0

Location 
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  69.8
1981:  71.4
1982:  67.0
1983:  74.2
1984*c:  78.3
1985:  76.2
1986:  80.9
1987:  82.5
1988:  81.8
1989:  84.2
1990:  82.0
1991:  83.0
1992:  82.3
1993*c:  83.0
1994:  85.1
1995:  83.3
1996:  84.8
1997:  86.1
1998:  86.9

Location 
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  69.0
1981:  71.6
1982:  71.5
1983:  74.2
1984*c:  75.4
1985:  77.1
1986:  77.3
1987:  79.6
1988:  80.9
1989:  82.3
1990:  81.2
1991:  81.6
1992:  82.6
1993*c:  80.6
1994:  82.4
1995:  81.1
1996:  83.6
1997:  84.4
1998:  86.3

Location 
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  65.3
1981:  66.0
1982:  64.6
1983:  68.7
1984*c:  70.5
1985:  68.8
1986:  72.7
1987:  73.2
1988:  75.1
1989:  73.8
1990:  73.6
1991:  74.9
1992:  75.3
1993*c:  76.9
1994:  79.2
1995:  80.6
1996:  80.8
1997:  81.6
1998:  80.0

Location 
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  77.6
1981:  79.6
1982:  76.8
1983:  80.0
1984*c:  81.0
1985:  80.4
1986:  82.7
1987:  86.2
1988:  85.5
1989:  87.5
1990:  84.8
1991:  86.0
1992:  86.7
1993*c:  88.1
1994:  86.5
1995:  86.2
1996:  85.1
1997:  87.6
1998:  89.3

Location 
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  66.2
1981:  70.3
1982:  66.6
1983:  70.4
1984*c:  76.6
1985:  71.3
1986:  70.3
1987:  73.4
1988:  75.1
1989:  75.9
1990:  78.4
1991:  76.3
1992:  74.3
1993*c:  79.1
1994:  78.5
1995:  77.4
1996:  76.9
1997:  79.5
1998:  82.5

Location 
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  73.7
1981:  72.9
1982:  70.4
1983:  72.8
1984*c:  75.5
1985:  78.9
1986:  74.8
1987:  76.9
1988:  79.9
1989:  78.0
1990:  84.7
1991:  83.3
1992:  78.5
1993*c:  77.3
1994:  85.7
1995:  87.1
1996:  87.5
1997:  83.9
1998:  87.9

Location 
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  70.8
1981:  69.5
1982:  70.3
1983:  75.7
1984*c:  76.4
1985:  76.1
1986:  79.2
1987:  77.0
1988:  80.7
1989:  83.1
1990:  80.9
1991:  85.9
1992:  84.4
1993*c:  86.1
1994:  87.3
1995:  83.8
1996:  83.9
1997:  85.6
1998:  86.8

Location 
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  74.6
1981:  76.4
1982:  75.3
1983:  74.8
1984*c:  74.0
1985:  75.8
1986:  77.9
1987:  81.4
1988:  81.0
1989:  82.2
1990:  86.1
1991:  84.7
1992:  84.3
1993*c:  86.6
1994:  86.2
1995:  89.9
1996:  85.3
1997:  85.3
1998:  86.3

Location 
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  77.7
1981:  75.8
1982:  79.2
1983:  77.5
1984*c:  78.1
1985:  75.5
1986:  83.9
1987:  83.7
1988:  82.0
1989:  76.3
1990:  80.6
1991:  81.2
1992:  75.7
1993*c:  80.4
1994:  80.6
1995:  81.0
1996:  81.6
1997:  81.0
1998:  77.3

Location 
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  73.5
1981:  76.4
1982:  79.3
1983:  80.3
1984*c:  79.9
1985:  82.8
1986:  85.0
1987:  77.9
1988:  77.6
1989:  83.6
1990:  85.6
1991:  85.1
1992:  80.0
1993*c:  80.4
1994:  85.4
1995:  85.8
1996:  83.2
1997:  85.7
1998:  84.3

Location 
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  67.2
1981:  69.3
1982:  68.4
1983:  72.2
1984*c:  70.7
1985:  72.4
1986:  74.0
1987:  75.1
1988:  77.2
1989:  77.6
1990:  76.9
1991:  76.3
1992:  75.7
1993*c:  75.7
1994:  77.3
1995:  78.8
1996:  78.6
1997:  78.2
1998:  80.8

Location 
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  63.0
1981:  65.3
1982:  64.3
1983:  66.5
1984*c:  69.4
1985:  71.0
1986:  69.4
1987:  73.4
1988:  72.7
1989:  75.2
1990:  72.2
1991:  75.1
1992:  76.7
1993*c:  76.1
1994:  77.3
1995:  72.5
1996:  72.1
1997:  76.4
1998:  74.3

Location 
New York
Employment Year
1980:  63.8
1981:  65.7
1982:  65.2
1983:  66.4
1984*c:  68.1
1985:  68.5
1986:  69.3
1987:  68.4
1988:  69.8
1989:  72.8
1990:  72.6
1991:  73.1
1992:  73.4
1993*c:  73.9
1994:  72.3
1995:  72.0
1996:  72.8
1997:  76.6
1998:  76.7

Location 
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  76.2
1981:  75.3
1982:  73.5
1983:  78.7
1984*c:  79.1
1985:  79.4
1986:  82.9
1987:  81.7
1988:  82.6
1989:  80.6
1990:  80.9
1991:  81.8
1992:  81.7
1993*c:  84.7
1994:  82.9
1995:  85.5
1996:  85.4
1997:  82.9
1998:  81.7

Location 
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  69.5
1981:  69.6
1982:  67.4
1983:  71.4
1984*c:  75.5
1985:  76.2
1986:  74.4
1987:  77.7
1988:  81.4
1989:  83.1
1990:  82.4
1991:  83.8
1992:  82.2
1993*c:  85.8
1994:  88.6
1995:  88.0
1996:  89.2
1997:  90.6
1998:  88.3

Location 
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  67.4
1981:  67.5
1982:  65.1
1983:  66.0
1984*c:  68.3
1985:  70.0
1986:  69.6
1987:  72.1
1988:  75.1
1989:  75.6
1990:  77.8
1991:  77.5
1992:  77.5
1993*c:  78.0
1994:  78.0
1995:  79.5
1996:  81.0
1997:  81.4
1998:  79.7

Location 
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  69.7
1981:  70.5
1982:  72.6
1983:  74.3
1984*c:  75.8
1985:  78.9
1986:  80.2
1987:  77.4
1988:  77.9
1989:  79.0
1990:  76.6
1991:  77.4
1992:  72.3
1993*c:  73.6
1994:  75.9
1995:  76.7
1996:  78.7
1997:  79.0
1998:  78.7

Location 
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  74.3
1981:  75.6
1982:  74.3
1983:  73.0
1984*c:  74.6
1985:  75.1
1986:  76.5
1987:  76.2
1988:  82.6
1989:  76.9
1990:  75.8
1991:  80.6
1992:  85.3
1993*c:  84.3
1994:  81.1
1995:  87.0
1996:  82.3
1997:  82.8
1998:  77.3

Location 
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  63.9
1981:  64.2
1982:  60.5
1983:  64.3
1984*c:  65.1
1985:  70.4
1986:  69.1
1987:  70.5
1988:  73.7
1989:  75.4
1990:  75.8
1991:  75.9
1992:  76.7
1993*c:  77.4
1994:  77.2
1995:  79.2
1996:  81.3
1997:  81.0
1998:  82.4

Location 
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  76.8
1981:  75.9
1982:  75.0
1983:  76.9
1984*c:  77.3
1985:  78.4
1986:  78.4
1987:  79.0
1988:  77.3
1989:  78.9
1990:  84.7
1991:  79.8
1992:  79.8
1993*c:  81.3
1994:  83.0
1995:  83.8
1996:  85.6
1997:  84.7
1998:  84.5

Location 
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  67.9
1981:  75.5
1982:  71.1
1983:  70.8
1984*c:  73.5
1985:  77.0
1986:  77.7
1987:  75.9
1988:  77.3
1989:  79.7
1990:  82.7
1991:  80.2
1992:  78.9
1993*c:  76.1
1994:  78.2
1995:  76.9
1996:  78.5
1997:  83.4
1998:  83.1

Location 
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  75.0
1981:  72.0
1982:  74.1
1983:  76.9
1984*c:  81.4
1985:  79.5
1986:  78.1
1987:  84.8
1988:  85.3
1989:  84.4
1990:  85.5
1991:  86.8
1992:  87.1
1993*c:  85.8
1994:  87.1
1995:  90.2
1996:  90.5
1997:  89.0
1998:  90.6

Location 
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  68.9
1981:  67.5
1982:  67.8
1983:  70.1
1984*c:  75.1
1985:  74.1
1986:  74.1
1987:  75.7
1988:  76.3
1989:  77.1
1990:  76.7
1991:  76.3
1992:  78.7
1993*c:  82.1
1994:  80.1
1995:  80.7
1996:  82.8
1997:  81.8
1998:  78.7

Location 
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  69.7
1981:  69.4
1982:  69.7
1983:  69.8
1984*c:  74.2
1985:  72.7
1986:  73.4
1987:  75.1
1988:  75.1
1989:  76.0
1990:  76.1
1991:  78.0
1992:  75.6
1993*c:  76.5
1994:  78.0
1995:  78.1
1996:  78.1
1997:  77.7
1998:  79.0

Location 
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  63.1
1981:  63.4
1982:  66.2
1983:  62.3
1984*c:  69.0
1985:  71.5
1986:  72.7
1987:  73.0
1988:  77.6
1989:  75.8
1990:  76.7
1991:  79.4
1992:  77.9
1993*c:  80.4
1994:  77.3
1995:  77.6
1996:  80.4
1997:  77.2
1998:  80.9

Location 
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  78.5
1981:  76.5
1982:  77.7
1983:  79.0
1984*c:  78.2
1985:  82.8
1986:  82.8
1987:  83.0
1988:  86.1
1989:  84.9
1990:  86.2
1991:  84.7
1992:  86.9
1993*c:  90.5
1994:  85.4
1995:  85.9
1996:  85.5
1997:  87.3
1998:  89.2

Location 
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  74.4
1981:  74.4
1982:  72.3
1983:  75.2
1984*c:  77.4
1985:  76.2
1986:  77.6
1987:  80.3
1988:  76.7
1989:  79.4
1990:  81.9
1991:  83.7
1992:  83.5
1993*c:  81.9
1994:  85.0
1995:  81.7
1996:  79.4
1997:  79.4
1998:  79.1

Location 
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  67.7
1981:  73.5
1982:  69.9
1983:  71.4
1984*c:  72.5
1985:  73.8
1986:  72.5
1987:  80.4
1988:  78.2
1989:  78.6
1990:  77.9
1991:  77.8
1992:  78.5
1993*c:  82.5
1994:  80.2
1995:  82.3
1996:  82.9
1997:  81.3
1998:  80.3

Location 
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  53.8
1981:  58.6
1982:  56.1
1983:  51.4
1984*c:  53.7
1985:  52.4
1986:  58.3
1987:  59.6
1988:  60.8
1989:  68.3
1990:  67.5
1991:  63.7
1992:  66.0
1993*c:  70.8
1994:  67.8
1995:  73.5
1996:  74.7
1997:  75.8
1998:  71.8

Location 
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  74.6
1981:  74.4
1982:  75.5
1983:  75.0
1984*c:  76.6
1985:  77.1
1986:  78.8
1987:  78.6
1988:  84.2
1989:  81.7
1990:  86.4
1991:  86.9
1992:  86.9
1993*c:  87.9
1994:  88.1
1995:  88.9
1996:  90.6
1997:  91.3
1998:  88.5

Location 
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  75.6
1981:  75.9
1982:  74.7
1983:  73.5
1984*c:  71.5
1985:  77.4
1986:  75.8
1987:  77.9
1988:  79.0
1989:  79.1
1990:  82.5
1991:  83.5
1992:  85.6
1993*c:  83.1
1994:  82.2
1995:  83.2
1996:  83.6
1997:  80.5
1998:  80.9

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  Individuals who report that they worked at least 52 hours annually in the 
previous calendar year, the "employment year," at civilian jobs or businesses, 
including temporary, part-time, or seasonal work are considered to have been 
employed.

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.


Appendix Table 1d.  Employment of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women with a 
Disability Aged 25 through 61 for the United States, and for Each State and the 
District of Columbia, Employment Years 1980 through 1998a,b

Location 
United States
Employment Year
1980:  28.5
1981:  28.1
1982:  29.3
1983:  28.9
1984*c:  30.2
1985:  32.4
1986:  32.1
1987:  33.9
1988:  36.2
1989:  37.5
1990:  34.9
1991:  35.0
1992:  34.3
1993*c:  33.4
1994:  36.0
1995:  33.9
1996:  33.9
1997:  31.9
1998:  29.5

Location 
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  22.9
1981:  21.8
1982:  17.1
1983:  6.1
1984*c:  21.3
1985:  34.4
1986:  30.3
1987:  19.3
1988:  31.7
1989:  22.7
1990:  25.2
1991:  19.7
1992:  17.6
1993*c:  24.2
1994:  24.5
1995:  15.2
1996:  25.1
1997:  30.7
1998:  27.9

Location 
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  40.4
1981:  48.5
1982:  48.1
1983:  44.3
1984*c:  52.7
1985:  48.3
1986:  46.2
1987:  68.2
1988:  54.7
1989:  47.2
1990:  34.4
1991:  45.6
1992:  38.7
1993*c:  67.5
1994:  47.6
1995:  46.1
1996:  33.1
1997:  29.2
1998:  42.6

Location 
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  24.6
1981:  28.1
1982:  53.7
1983:  33.8
1984*c:  41.7
1985:  41.9
1986:  41.9
1987:  35.8
1988:  29.7
1989:  45.4
1990:  40.0
1991:  42.0
1992:  26.5
1993*c:  47.8
1994:  48.1
1995:  48.8
1996:  33.1
1997:  35.3
1998:  30.5

Location 
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  19.8
1981:  29.0
1982:  20.0
1983:  31.7
1984*c:  34.2
1985:  25.9
1986:  33.9
1987:  34.9
1988:  38.6
1989:  40.0
1990:  23.3
1991:  42.8
1992:  30.9
1993*c:  32.4
1994:  31.7
1995:  29.6
1996:  32.4
1997:  28.7
1998:  19.7

Location 
California
Employment Year
1980:  25.2
1981:  32.4
1982:  32.7
1983:  25.4
1984*c:  31.3
1985:  40.0
1986:  33.9
1987:  38.0
1988:  43.9
1989:  41.5
1990:  35.7
1991:  34.6
1992:  38.7
1993*c:  25.9
1994:  39.8
1995:  35.5
1996:  37.9
1997:  31.7
1998:  31.2

Location 
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  24.0
1981:  45.9
1982:  41.8
1983:  47.9
1984*c:  34.6
1985:  65.6
1986:  37.3
1987:  56.5
1988:  40.8
1989:  46.2
1990:  39.3
1991:  39.0
1992:  45.4
1993*c:  64.4
1994:  57.3
1995:  42.8
1996:  38.4
1997:  37.5
1998:  34.4

Location 
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  50.1
1981:  37.7
1982:  44.3
1983:  42.8
1984*c:  54.8
1985:  34.9
1986:  27.3
1987:  48.2
1988:  59.0
1989:  69.7
1990:  33.5
1991:  37.3
1992:  44.9
1993*c:  48.1
1994:  65.9
1995:  38.0
1996:  36.3
1997:  28.1
1998:  32.1

Location 
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  46.6
1981:  33.3
1982:  24.0
1983:  44.3
1984*c:  35.0
1985:  40.8
1986:  11.8
1987:  27.8
1988:  27.0
1989:  56.3
1990:  40.5
1991:  40.5
1992:  59.6
1993*c:  49.4
1994:  36.2
1995:  29.5
1996:  18.5
1997:  29.3
1998:  31.5

Location 
DC
Employment Year
1980:  29.5
1981:  38.1
1982:  14.7
1983:  16.1
1984*c:  32.6
1985:  23.9
1986:  26.9
1987:  43.2
1988:  35.8
1989:  17.9
1990:  15.0
1991:  25.6
1992:  38.6
1993*c:  41.6
1994:  24.3
1995:  23.7
1996:  30.8
1997:  26.4
1998:  38.5

Location 
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  26.1
1981:  31.2
1982:  28.8
1983:  27.7
1984*c:  30.1
1985:  23.8
1986:  37.1
1987:  41.8
1988:  41.2
1989:  42.2
1990:  35.4
1991:  37.7
1992:  44.8
1993*c:  36.4
1994:  34.3
1995:  32.6
1996:  30.5
1997:  30.2
1998:  22.2

Location 
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  29.9
1981:  37.6
1982:  28.6
1983:  18.3
1984*c:  44.1
1985:  35.6
1986:  27.8
1987:  31.4
1988:  31.4
1989:  23.7
1990:  22.0
1991:  15.5
1992:  21.2
1993*c:  33.3
1994:  43.6
1995:  28.0
1996:  28.6
1997:  42.3
1998:  25.3

Location 
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  21.0
1981:  44.2
1982:  44.9
1983:  30.5
1984*c:  32.4
1985:  29.8
1986:  44.6
1987:  32.1
1988:  61.3
1989:  33.8
1990:  36.4
1991:  30.7
1992:  37.0
1993*c:  32.2
1994:  25.0
1995:  54.8
1996:  48.2
1997:  49.0
1998:  33.0

Location 
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  43.8
1981:  52.4
1982:  37.8
1983:  59.5
1984*c:  38.4
1985:  52.7
1986:  33.0
1987:  41.3
1988:  40.3
1989:  45.9
1990:  56.1
1991:  50.0
1992:  44.3
1993*c:  49.1
1994:  59.7
1995:  34.8
1996:  28.2
1997:  36.5
1998:  42.6

Location 
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  27.0
1981:  20.3
1982:  31.1
1983:  26.9
1984*c:  26.9
1985:  21.3
1986:  22.2
1987:  24.6
1988:  25.6
1989:  38.2
1990:  32.1
1991:  35.0
1992:  31.7
1993*c:  31.2
1994:  33.0
1995:  41.1
1996:  30.4
1997:  35.3
1998:  26.9

Location 
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  28.5
1981:  15.2
1982:  26.0
1983:  34.3
1984*c:  29.5
1985:  34.9
1986:  24.6
1987:  17.4
1988:  41.9
1989:  63.8
1990:  30.7
1991:  33.0
1992:  40.4
1993*c:  28.4
1994:  48.0
1995:  33.1
1996:  39.8
1997:  31.0
1998:  13.5

Location 
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  21.9
1981:  30.8
1982:  45.5
1983:  15.9
1984*c:  40.0
1985:  43.2
1986:  48.1
1987:  68.2
1988:  46.9
1989:  34.1
1990:  38.7
1991:  55.5
1992:  36.7
1993*c:  53.8
1994:  43.5
1995:  60.9
1996:  56.3
1997:  43.7
1998:  44.3

Location 
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  42.8
1981:  28.9
1982:  26.0
1983:  54.1
1984*c:  57.5
1985:  52.6
1986:  48.6
1987:  45.2
1988:  26.2
1989:  53.6
1990:  54.8
1991:  44.2
1992:  52.4
1993*c:  64.0
1994:  29.6
1995:  33.1
1996:  39.2
1997:  44.3
1998:  52.2

Location 
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  20.3
1981:  19.7
1982:  22.3
1983:  23.6
1984*c:  42.1
1985:  25.6
1986:  24.4
1987:  16.1
1988:  32.5
1989:  32.5
1990:  27.6
1991:  25.0
1992:  16.5
1993*c:  9.0
1994:  30.9
1995:  25.1
1996:  25.1
1997:  18.9
1998:  25.5

Location 
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  12.8
1981:  21.2
1982:  26.4
1983:  22.3
1984*c:  32.9
1985:  18.5
1986:  27.0
1987:  10.8
1988:  27.9
1989:  17.6
1990:  31.1
1991:  35.5
1992:  33.8
1993*c:  14.6
1994:  24.5
1995:  26.9
1996:  18.4
1997:  30.4
1998:  16.6

Location 
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  13.8
1981:  12.3
1982:  53.2
1983:  33.7
1984*c:  27.5
1985:  29.1
1986:  41.6
1987:  37.3
1988:  27.1
1989:  35.9
1990:  61.6
1991:  49.8
1992:  37.4
1993*c:  40.9
1994:  31.7
1995:  40.2
1996:  29.7
1997:  44.5
1998:  37.4

Location 
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  31.1
1981:  24.7
1982:  30.1
1983:  39.9
1984*c:  23.7
1985:  35.6
1986:  46.8
1987:  37.6
1988:  34.6
1989:  29.6
1990:  21.9
1991:  21.2
1992:  22.8
1993*c:  24.5
1994:  35.4
1995:  36.7
1996:  36.4
1997:  37.7
1998:  43.1

Location 
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  41.1
1981:  23.4
1982:  27.0
1983:  23.2
1984*c:  27.6
1985:  31.1
1986:  34.0
1987:  39.8
1988:  29.1
1989:  43.6
1990:  39.7
1991:  35.8
1992:  39.7
1993*c:  29.4
1994:  37.2
1995:  23.5
1996:  37.0
1997:  30.1
1998:  29.6

Location 
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  27.8
1981:  23.2
1982:  20.7
1983:  31.6
1984*c:  22.9
1985:  27.2
1986:  32.8
1987:  26.0
1988:  35.1
1989:  33.3
1990:  36.4
1991:  29.8
1992:  30.9
1993*c:  35.3
1994:  31.1
1995:  41.9
1996:  25.5
1997:  25.7
1998:  27.7

Location 
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  57.7
1981:  47.9
1982:  45.7
1983:  52.8
1984*c:  48.1
1985:  47.5
1986:  48.9
1987:  52.6
1988:  68.7
1989:  79.9
1990:  62.5
1991:  66.9
1992:  58.4
1993*c:  59.4
1994:  70.2
1995:  48.8
1996:  53.1
1997:  56.1
1998:  57.1

Location 
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  20.1
1981:  19.0
1982:  13.1
1983:  10.3
1984*c:  17.6
1985:  16.9
1986:  21.3
1987:  26.7
1988:  22.9
1989:  31.1
1990:  28.3
1991:  20.8
1992:  29.0
1993*c:  26.1
1994:  36.2
1995:  30.8
1996:  13.1
1997:  13.2
1998:  26.6

Location 
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  25.2
1981:  23.3
1982:  24.0
1983:  28.4
1984*c:  23.6
1985:  39.2
1986:  40.8
1987:  47.7
1988:  31.8
1989:  30.5
1990:  51.0
1991:  40.6
1992:  34.1
1993*c:  27.1
1994:  47.8
1995:  35.5
1996:  49.8
1997:  50.7
1998:  41.1

Location 
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  51.8
1981:  40.7
1982:  33.8
1983:  34.9
1984*c:  34.8
1985:  52.7
1986:  57.7
1987:  43.1
1988:  42.7
1989:  59.9
1990:  39.4
1991:  54.2
1992:  47.8
1993*c:  39.3
1994:  36.4
1995:  36.9
1996:  44.9
1997:  48.6
1998:  34.9

Location 
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  55.9
1981:  39.6
1982:  33.7
1983:  51.0
1984*c:  53.3
1985:  45.4
1986:  41.3
1987:  45.6
1988:  32.7
1989:  48.2
1990:  44.0
1991:  40.9
1992:  51.7
1993*c:  47.9
1994:  42.2
1995:  51.9
1996:  35.4
1997:  38.0
1998:  43.0

Location 
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  50.1
1981:  29.1
1982:  47.6
1983:  53.1
1984*c:  34.0
1985:  52.5
1986:  51.8
1987:  47.3
1988:  53.5
1989:  52.8
1990:  43.0
1991:  48.8
1992:  54.4
1993*c:  46.6
1994:  29.8
1995:  37.3
1996:  43.8
1997:  39.6
1998:  34.2

Location 
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  24.7
1981:  33.0
1982:  33.6
1983:  46.1
1984*c:  49.9
1985:  31.6
1986:  32.3
1987:  66.5
1988:  27.5
1989:  48.0
1990:  34.5
1991:  55.4
1992:  37.3
1993*c:  57.9
1994:  66.9
1995:  41.4
1996:  45.2
1997:  36.8
1998:  28.0

Location 
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  26.9
1981:  23.7
1982:  30.0
1983:  36.2
1984*c:  36.6
1985:  35.4
1986:  33.2
1987:  40.8
1988:  43.4
1989:  35.8
1990:  33.1
1991:  41.7
1992:  26.2
1993*c:  33.5
1994:  29.8
1995:  28.0
1996:  23.7
1997:  32.4
1998:  31.2

Location 
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  32.3
1981:  28.7
1982:  42.1
1983:  23.2
1984*c:  18.8
1985:  28.5
1986:  31.0
1987:  30.3
1988:  31.8
1989:  42.2
1990:  32.5
1991:  32.7
1992:  31.5
1993*c:  33.5
1994:  35.2
1995:  33.1
1996:  28.4
1997:  33.8
1998:  38.3

Location 
New York
Employment Year
1980:  21.3
1981:  20.1
1982:  23.6
1983:  17.4
1984*c:  20.2
1985:  25.3
1986:  25.5
1987:  26.1
1988:  28.1
1989:  31.1
1990:  35.1
1991:  28.5
1992:  31.7
1993*c:  28.5
1994:  26.5
1995:  31.7
1996:  29.7
1997:  28.6
1998:  24.4

Location 
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  28.5
1981:  26.4
1982:  25.5
1983:  27.7
1984*c:  28.1
1985:  27.4
1986:  37.1
1987:  41.2
1988:  32.3
1989:  36.1
1990:  23.0
1991:  37.5
1992:  37.0
1993*c:  36.0
1994:  30.3
1995:  29.0
1996:  32.5
1997:  29.3
1998:  18.2

Location 
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  22.4
1981:  57.8
1982:  44.3
1983:  44.6
1984*c:  47.8
1985:  45.6
1986:  47.5
1987:  55.9
1988:  37.8
1989:  50.4
1990:  42.2
1991:  46.8
1992:  47.8
1993*c:  47.7
1994:  55.6
1995:  61.7
1996:  45.8
1997:  45.4
1998:  61.4

Location 
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  25.1
1981:  28.9
1982:  22.2
1983:  25.4
1984*c:  20.7
1985:  29.1
1986:  25.5
1987:  31.6
1988:  33.2
1989:  32.4
1990:  33.4
1991:  27.3
1992:  27.7
1993*c:  36.0
1994:  30.7
1995:  21.9
1996:  22.7
1997:  32.8
1998:  34.4

Location 
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  33.1
1981:  40.0
1982:  38.9
1983:  24.5
1984*c:  31.4
1985:  23.8
1986:  24.9
1987:  32.0
1988:  40.5
1989:  39.4
1990:  39.5
1991:  45.0
1992:  21.9
1993*c:  28.9
1994:  30.0
1995:  35.9
1996:  38.6
1997:  39.6
1998:  40.7

Location 
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  30.4
1981:  41.3
1982:  43.6
1983:  50.8
1984*c:  42.4
1985:  25.4
1986:  29.3
1987:  49.4
1988:  51.3
1989:  44.1
1990:  52.4
1991:  53.6
1992:  49.7
1993*c:  29.6
1994:  29.2
1995:  53.2
1996:  51.6
1997:  37.7
1998:  34.3

Location 
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  27.6
1981:  17.7
1982:  30.0
1983:  25.0
1984*c:  13.3
1985:  25.8
1986:  22.6
1987:  26.3
1988:  32.7
1989:  35.5
1990:  35.8
1991:  40.5
1992:  32.6
1993*c:  36.4
1994:  29.8
1995:  26.2
1996:  32.3
1997:  26.0
1998:  25.2

Location 
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  39.5
1981:  21.0
1982:  18.0
1983:  25.0
1984*c:  31.5
1985:  45.4
1986:  60.0
1987:  51.7
1988:  34.1
1989:  35.7
1990:  46.1
1991:  32.7
1992:  30.3
1993*c:  49.0
1994:  21.6
1995:  30.9
1996:  23.8
1997:  22.0
1998:  20.7

Location 
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  25.3
1981:  40.1
1982:  36.7
1983:  27.5
1984*c:  36.3
1985:  33.2
1986:  25.2
1987:  32.5
1988:  22.9
1989:  43.2
1990:  24.0
1991:  22.1
1992:  15.1
1993*c:  23.2
1994:  40.2
1995:  8.7
1996:  36.2
1997:  41.5
1998:  23.4

Location 
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  45.9
1981:  50.4
1982:  45.6
1983:  30.5
1984*c:  40.9
1985:  52.5
1986:  45.3
1987:  43.2
1988:  32.2
1989:  48.0
1990:  36.9
1991:  58.8
1992:  55.0
1993*c:  69.5
1994:  54.8
1995:  58.5
1996:  68.5
1997:  58.0
1998:  51.5

Location 
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  18.4
1981:  23.0
1982:  14.8
1983:  23.6
1984*c:  25.9
1985:  22.9
1986:  19.5
1987:  23.8
1988:  36.9
1989:  22.6
1990:  14.8
1991:  27.3
1992:  28.0
1993*c:  28.5
1994:  27.7
1995:  29.8
1996:  34.8
1997:  21.3
1998:  32.4

Location 
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  33.8
1981:  36.4
1982:  38.8
1983:  40.0
1984*c:  42.6
1985:  38.8
1986:  38.4
1987:  35.5
1988:  44.7
1989:  35.2
1990:  36.4
1991:  36.7
1992:  31.2
1993*c:  36.3
1994:  34.1
1995:  41.3
1996:  35.6
1997:  27.0
1998:  34.6

Location 
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  44.1
1981:  38.7
1982:  36.5
1983:  39.9
1984*c:  47.1
1985:  63.0
1986:  41.4
1987:  36.0
1988:  38.7
1989:  32.6
1990:  52.3
1991:  35.6
1992:  47.6
1993*c:  48.2
1994:  41.0
1995:  57.1
1996:  40.4
1997:  60.9
1998:  45.0

Location 
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  37.1
1981:  33.2
1982:  39.3
1983:  33.4
1984*c:  43.1
1985:  45.0
1986:  39.0
1987:  43.5
1988:  32.4
1989:  56.1
1990:  49.0
1991:  41.2
1992:  42.9
1993*c:  40.0
1994:  55.8
1995:  64.7
1996:  46.6
1997:  56.5
1998:  45.5

Location 
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  36.9
1981:  23.8
1982:  27.2
1983:  19.9
1984*c:  23.3
1985:  30.9
1986:  38.9
1987:  25.4
1988:  11.9
1989:  36.8
1990:  37.3
1991:  38.9
1992:  43.9
1993*c:  36.2
1994:  41.6
1995:  33.5
1996:  36.1
1997:  16.3
1998:  21.4

Location 
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  29.9
1981:  42.0
1982:  30.1
1983:  36.4
1984*c:  30.5
1985:  37.0
1986:  40.4
1987:  39.7
1988:  39.4
1989:  42.9
1990:  43.0
1991:  42.4
1992:  43.7
1993*c:  28.9
1994:  45.2
1995:  41.1
1996:  48.8
1997:  40.5
1998:  26.1

Location 
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  32.1
1981:  30.7
1982:  16.0
1983:  20.4
1984*c:  14.1
1985:  4.5
1986:  27.0
1987:  17.6
1988:  20.1
1989:  24.5
1990:  24.7
1991:  30.2
1992:  12.7
1993*c:  18.9
1994:  11.9
1995:  18.5
1996:  24.3
1997:  18.0
1998:  11.4

Location 
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  47.4
1981:  40.7
1982:  34.0
1983:  52.5
1984*c:  60.5
1985:  53.0
1986:  32.0
1987:  55.1
1988:  57.4
1989:  51.7
1990:  37.0
1991:  41.4
1992:  43.5
1993*c:  58.7
1994:  53.3
1995:  51.7
1996:  44.6
1997:  44.9
1998:  37.5

Location 
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  53.5
1981:  42.3
1982:  52.3
1983:  51.2
1984*c:  68.2
1985:  61.7
1986:  19.3
1987:  36.1
1988:  44.0
1989:  60.9
1990:  57.8
1991:  40.5
1992:  31.0
1993*c:  49.2
1994:  33.9
1995:  59.1
1996:  44.5
1997:  36.6
1998:  48.6

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  Individuals who report that they worked at least 52 hours annually in the 
previous calendar year, the "employment year," at civilian jobs or businesses, 
including temporary, part-time, or seasonal work are considered to have been 
employed.

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.



Appendix Table 2a.  Estimated Standard Errors for the Employment Rates of Non-
Institutionalized Civilian Men without a Disability Aged 25 through 61 without 
Work Limitations in Appendix Table 1a*a

Location 
United States
Employment Year
1980:  0.12
1981:  0.13
1982:  0.15
1983:  0.16
1984*b:  0.14
1985:  0.14
1986:  0.13
1987:  0.14
1988:  0.14
1989:  0.13
1990:  0.13
1991:  0.14
1992:  0.15
1993*b:  0.15
1994:  0.15
1995:  0.16
1996:  0.16
1997:  0.15
1998:  0.15

Location 
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  1.03
1981:  0.94
1982:  1.32
1983:  1.22
1984*b:  1.43
1985:  1.67
1986:  1.14
1987:  1.38
1988:  1.12
1989:  1.26
1990:  1.49
1991:  1.28
1992:  1.24
1993*b:  1.29
1994:  1.29
1995:  1.23
1996:  1.29
1997:  1.36
1998:  1.10

Location 
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  0.23
1981:  0.44
1982:  0.32
1983:  0.33
1984*b:  0.41
1985:  0.34
1986:  0.52
1987:  0.50
1988:  0.43
1989:  1.02
1990:  0.94
1991:  1.14
1992:  0.96
1993*b:  1.21
1994:  0.96
1995:  1.22
1996:  1.10
1997:  1.10
1998:  1.17

Location 
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  1.09
1981:  0.90
1982:  1.24
1983:  0.99
1984*b:  1.56
1985:  1.37
1986:  1.21
1987:  1.39
1988:  1.26
1989:  1.12
1990:  1.01
1991:  1.20
1992:  1.33
1993*b:  1.20
1994:  1.14
1995:  1.32
1996:  1.37
1997:  1.30
1998:  1.23

Location 
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  1.22
1981:  0.94
1982:  1.03
1983:  1.11
1984*b:  1.19
1985:  0.81
1986:  1.03
1987:  0.94
1988:  0.94
1989:  1.21
1990:  1.42
1991:  0.89
1992:  0.90
1993*b:  1.29
1994:  1.19
1995:  1.13
1996:  1.35
1997:  1.67
1998:  1.33

Location 
California
Employment Year
1980:  0.40
1981:  0.50
1982:  0.57
1983:  0.57
1984*b:  0.55
1985:  0.54
1986:  0.51
1987:  0.56
1988:  0.84
1989:  0.41
1990:  0.44
1991:  0.49
1992:  0.52
1993*b:  0.58
1994:  0.54
1995:  0.59
1996:  0.58
1997:  0.53
1998:  0.54

Location 
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  0.49
1981:  0.67
1982:  0.92
1983:  0.83
1984*b:  0.87
1985:  0.95
1986:  1.38
1987:  1.23
1988:  1.16
1989:  1.19
1990:  1.00
1991:  0.94
1992:  1.16
1993*b:  0.95
1994:  1.01
1995:  1.02
1996:  1.16
1997:  0.87
1998:  0.86

Location 
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  0.69
1981:  1.17
1982:  0.82
1983:  0.76
1984*b:  0.67
1985:  0.86
1986:  0.76
1987:  1.00
1988:  0.93
1989:  1.22
1990:  1.16
1991:  1.36
1992:  1.43
1993*b:  1.25
1994:  1.35
1995:  1.36
1996:  1.58
1997:  1.47
1998:  1.38

Location 
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  0.85
1981:  0.45
1982:  0.49
1983:  0.65
1984*b:  0.63
1985:  0.50
1986:  0.46
1987:  0.50
1988:  0.46
1989:  1.19
1990:  0.99
1991:  1.23
1992:  1.06
1993*b:  0.95
1994:  0.83
1995:  1.13
1996:  1.41
1997:  0.80
1998:  1.30

Location 
DC
Employment Year
1980:  1.81
1981:  0.96
1982:  1.04
1983:  1.13
1984*b:  0.86
1985:  0.93
1986:  0.61
1987:  0.49
1988:  0.62
1989:  1.78
1990:  2.00
1991:  1.78
1992:  2.15
1993*b:  2.03
1994:  2.19
1995:  2.24
1996:  2.01
1997:  2.10
1998:  1.76

Location 
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  0.66
1981:  1.03
1982:  0.99
1983:  0.96
1984*b:  0.58
1985:  0.55
1986:  0.50
1987:  0.49
1988:  0.52
1989:  0.56
1990:  0.63
1991:  0.58
1992:  0.60
1993*b:  0.69
1994:  0.63
1995:  0.74
1996:  0.75
1997:  0.69
1998:  0.68

Location 
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  0.77
1981:  0.90
1982:  1.08
1983:  1.08
1984*b:  1.40
1985:  1.25
1986:  1.00
1987:  0.97
1988:  1.25
1989:  1.04
1990:  1.06
1991:  1.20
1992:  1.06
1993*b:  0.96
1994:  0.99
1995:  1.10
1996:  1.08
1997:  0.94
1998:  0.80

Location 
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  0.77
1981:  0.78
1982:  0.91
1983:  0.74
1984*b:  0.77
1985:  0.75
1986:  0.85
1987:  0.90
1988:  0.86
1989:  1.26
1990:  1.06
1991:  1.09
1992:  1.20
1993*b:  1.68
1994:  1.43
1995:  1.78
1996:  1.71
1997:  2.12
1998:  1.72

Location 
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  0.44
1981:  0.60
1982:  0.67
1983:  0.53
1984*b:  0.58
1985:  0.48
1986:  0.54
1987:  0.44
1988:  0.34
1989:  0.76
1990:  0.77
1991:  0.87
1992:  0.87
1993*b:  0.91
1994:  0.64
1995:  1.03
1996:  0.88
1997:  0.86
1998:  0.82

Location 
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  0.61
1981:  0.61
1982:  0.74
1983:  0.89
1984*b:  0.62
1985:  0.73
1986:  0.66
1987:  0.68
1988:  0.62
1989:  0.63
1990:  0.53
1991:  0.69
1992:  0.73
1993*b:  0.73
1994:  0.65
1995:  0.74
1996:  0.73
1997:  0.73
1998:  0.66

Location 
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  0.89
1981:  1.10
1982:  0.93
1983:  1.05
1984*b:  1.21
1985:  1.11
1986:  1.29
1987:  1.17
1988:  1.54
1989:  1.35
1990:  0.84
1991:  1.17
1992:  1.05
1993*b:  0.97
1994:  1.17
1995:  1.18
1996:  1.13
1997:  1.00
1998:  0.98

Location 
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  0.80
1981:  0.97
1982:  1.23
1983:  1.08
1984*b:  1.04
1985:  0.95
1986:  0.81
1987:  0.58
1988:  0.55
1989:  0.82
1990:  0.87
1991:  0.65
1992:  0.67
1993*b:  1.14
1994:  0.86
1995:  0.88
1996:  0.91
1997:  0.91
1998:  0.94

Location 
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  0.74
1981:  0.94
1982:  0.78
1983:  1.15
1984*b:  0.75
1985:  0.74
1986:  0.63
1987:  0.85
1988:  0.51
1989:  1.01
1990:  0.78
1991:  0.45
1992:  0.72
1993*b:  0.61
1994:  1.09
1995:  1.05
1996:  0.86
1997:  0.95
1998:  1.02

Location 
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  1.09
1981:  1.31
1982:  1.43
1983:  1.44
1984*b:  1.42
1985:  1.46
1986:  1.22
1987:  1.32
1988:  1.45
1989:  1.09
1990:  1.18
1991:  1.31
1992:  1.17
1993*b:  1.25
1994:  1.34
1995:  1.35
1996:  1.04
1997:  1.08
1998:  1.34

Location 
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  0.71
1981:  0.73
1982:  1.12
1983:  1.34
1984*b:  1.75
1985:  1.77
1986:  1.49
1987:  1.76
1988:  1.37
1989:  1.64
1990:  1.28
1991:  1.41
1992:  1.29
1993*b:  1.44
1994:  1.44
1995:  1.42
1996:  1.44
1997:  1.30
1998:  1.50

Location 
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  0.99
1981:  0.66
1982:  0.71
1983:  0.77
1984*b:  0.48
1985:  0.61
1986:  0.72
1987:  0.82
1988:  0.45
1989:  0.98
1990:  0.93
1991:  1.25
1992:  1.08
1993*b:  1.23
1994:  1.07
1995:  1.29
1996:  1.29
1997:  1.37
1998:  1.09

Location 
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  1.07
1981:  0.99
1982:  1.34
1983:  1.32
1984*b:  1.03
1985:  1.04
1986:  0.93
1987:  1.03
1988:  1.10
1989:  0.91
1990:  1.07
1991:  1.04
1992:  1.46
1993*b:  1.20
1994:  1.35
1995:  1.35
1996:  1.39
1997:  1.09
1998:  1.48

Location 
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  0.57
1981:  0.74
1982:  0.77
1983:  0.60
1984*b:  0.44
1985:  0.41
1986:  0.36
1987:  0.42
1988:  0.35
1989:  0.49
1990:  0.67
1991:  0.71
1992:  0.63
1993*b:  0.63
1994:  0.73
1995:  0.98
1996:  0.85
1997:  0.79
1998:  0.81

Location 
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  0.77
1981:  0.96
1982:  1.08
1983:  1.14
1984*b:  0.75
1985:  0.68
1986:  0.66
1987:  0.64
1988:  0.58
1989:  0.73
1990:  0.75
1991:  0.65
1992:  0.64
1993*b:  0.68
1994:  0.74
1995:  0.76
1996:  0.61
1997:  0.76
1998:  0.65

Location 
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  0.82
1981:  0.93
1982:  0.97
1983:  1.08
1984*b:  0.91
1985:  0.87
1986:  0.83
1987:  1.14
1988:  1.09
1989:  0.92
1990:  0.69
1991:  0.87
1992:  0.78
1993*b:  0.86
1994:  0.83
1995:  0.91
1996:  0.81
1997:  0.93
1998:  1.13

Location 
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  0.76
1981:  0.80
1982:  1.03
1983:  1.23
1984*b:  0.98
1985:  1.25
1986:  1.18
1987:  1.16
1988:  0.92
1989:  1.24
1990:  1.20
1991:  1.20
1992:  1.03
1993*b:  0.90
1994:  1.23
1995:  1.82
1996:  1.33
1997:  1.50
1998:  1.64

Location 
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  0.97
1981:  0.93
1982:  1.20
1983:  1.21
1984*b:  1.11
1985:  1.18
1986:  1.15
1987:  1.34
1988:  1.52
1989:  1.24
1990:  1.11
1991:  1.15
1992:  1.39
1993*b:  1.08
1994:  1.62
1995:  1.06
1996:  1.32
1997:  1.33
1998:  1.01

Location 
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  0.46
1981:  0.46
1982:  0.64
1983:  0.51
1984*b:  0.39
1985:  0.59
1986:  0.49
1987:  0.58
1988:  0.47
1989:  1.07
1990:  0.99
1991:  0.96
1992:  1.08
1993*b:  0.88
1994:  1.26
1995:  1.28
1996:  0.98
1997:  1.05
1998:  1.12

Location 
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  0.66
1981:  0.47
1982:  0.63
1983:  0.34
1984*b:  0.37
1985:  0.50
1986:  0.59
1987:  0.54
1988:  0.61
1989:  0.82
1990:  0.77
1991:  1.03
1992:  0.62
1993*b:  0.60
1994:  0.89
1995:  0.72
1996:  0.96
1997:  0.85
1998:  1.02

Location 
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  0.38
1981:  0.46
1982:  0.56
1983:  0.85
1984*b:  0.65
1985:  0.81
1986:  0.63
1987:  0.87
1988:  0.60
1989:  1.16
1990:  0.71
1991:  0.99
1992:  1.23
1993*b:  0.87
1994:  1.07
1995:  1.15
1996:  1.58
1997:  1.25
1998:  1.29

Location 
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  0.46
1981:  0.48
1982:  0.51
1983:  0.54
1984*b:  0.52
1985:  0.70
1986:  0.39
1987:  0.58
1988:  0.54
1989:  0.92
1990:  0.94
1991:  0.97
1992:  1.05
1993*b:  1.26
1994:  1.13
1995:  0.91
1996:  0.90
1997:  1.13
1998:  1.10

Location 
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  0.69
1981:  0.63
1982:  0.80
1983:  0.72
1984*b:  0.40
1985:  0.41
1986:  0.33
1987:  0.36
1988:  0.40
1989:  0.50
1990:  0.48
1991:  0.59
1992:  0.70
1993*b:  0.74
1994:  0.63
1995:  0.85
1996:  0.74
1997:  0.82
1998:  0.67

Location 
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  0.76
1981:  0.77
1982:  0.98
1983:  0.90
1984*b:  0.93
1985:  0.78
1986:  0.70
1987:  0.83
1988:  0.88
1989:  1.22
1990:  1.35
1991:  1.18
1992:  1.51
1993*b:  1.35
1994:  1.22
1995:  1.68
1996:  1.50
1997:  1.30
1998:  1.47

Location 
New York
Employment Year
1980:  0.57
1981:  0.52
1982:  0.66
1983:  0.69
1984*b:  0.50
1985:  0.46
1986:  0.48
1987:  0.47
1988:  0.66
1989:  0.50
1990:  0.49
1991:  0.57
1992:  0.61
1993*b:  0.65
1994:  0.60
1995:  0.71
1996:  0.68
1997:  0.67
1998:  0.67

Location 
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  0.79
1981:  0.90
1982:  1.38
1983:  1.01
1984*b:  0.43
1985:  0.42
1986:  0.37
1987:  0.37
1988:  0.37
1989:  0.51
1990:  0.52
1991:  0.51
1992:  0.60
1993*b:  0.56
1994:  0.59
1995:  0.79
1996:  0.82
1997:  0.66
1998:  0.85

Location 
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  0.33
1981:  0.45
1982:  0.45
1983:  0.48
1984*b:  0.36
1985:  0.38
1986:  0.40
1987:  0.34
1988:  0.28
1989:  0.68
1990:  1.15
1991:  1.02
1992:  0.74
1993*b:  0.78
1994:  0.56
1995:  0.95
1996:  0.79
1997:  0.80
1998:  1.20

Location 
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  0.52
1981:  0.78
1982:  0.88
1983:  0.93
1984*b:  0.65
1985:  0.61
1986:  0.60
1987:  0.55
1988:  0.53
1989:  0.58
1990:  0.57
1991:  0.62
1992:  0.64
1993*b:  0.60
1994:  0.56
1995:  0.65
1996:  0.68
1997:  0.65
1998:  0.67

Location 
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  0.95
1981:  0.81
1982:  0.83
1983:  1.19
1984*b:  0.80
1985:  1.24
1986:  1.35
1987:  1.26
1988:  1.38
1989:  1.07
1990:  1.18
1991:  1.22
1992:  1.09
1993*b:  1.07
1994:  1.39
1995:  1.00
1996:  1.00
1997:  1.16
1998:  1.35

Location 
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  1.18
1981:  1.05
1982:  1.09
1983:  1.21
1984*b:  1.52
1985:  1.66
1986:  1.51
1987:  1.28
1988:  0.95
1989:  1.22
1990:  1.20
1991:  1.22
1992:  1.15
1993*b:  1.36
1994:  1.29
1995:  0.86
1996:  1.05
1997:  1.08
1998:  1.33

Location 
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  0.59
1981:  0.69
1982:  0.90
1983:  0.99
1984*b:  0.65
1985:  0.59
1986:  0.60
1987:  0.66
1988:  0.50
1989:  0.58
1990:  0.63
1991:  0.59
1992:  0.73
1993*b:  0.74
1994:  0.59
1995:  0.66
1996:  0.64
1997:  0.66
1998:  0.64

Location 
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  0.75
1981:  0.69
1982:  0.89
1983:  0.86
1984*b:  0.78
1985:  0.63
1986:  0.74
1987:  0.94
1988:  0.47
1989:  1.13
1990:  1.43
1991:  1.29
1992:  1.49
1993*b:  1.43
1994:  1.63
1995:  1.36
1996:  1.33
1997:  1.12
1998:  1.18

Location 
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  1.60
1981:  1.12
1982:  1.37
1983:  1.33
1984*b:  0.82
1985:  1.01
1986:  0.86
1987:  0.87
1988:  0.75
1989:  0.72
1990:  1.17
1991:  1.03
1992:  1.18
1993*b:  1.28
1994:  1.11
1995:  1.63
1996:  1.18
1997:  0.96
1998:  1.14

Location 
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  0.44
1981:  0.45
1982:  0.49
1983:  0.45
1984*b:  0.35
1985:  0.39
1986:  0.36
1987:  0.31
1988:  0.27
1989:  0.97
1990:  0.75
1991:  0.80
1992:  0.95
1993*b:  1.00
1994:  0.77
1995:  0.76
1996:  1.06
1997:  1.44
1998:  0.77

Location 
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  1.02
1981:  1.31
1982:  1.51
1983:  1.61
1984*b:  1.62
1985:  1.23
1986:  1.40
1987:  1.29
1988:  1.43
1989:  1.21
1990:  0.92
1991:  1.26
1992:  1.47
1993*b:  1.11
1994:  1.02
1995:  1.42
1996:  1.46
1997:  1.28
1998:  1.47

Location 
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  0.45
1981:  0.56
1982:  0.69
1983:  0.67
1984*b:  0.64
1985:  0.65
1986:  0.67
1987:  0.64
1988:  0.59
1989:  0.49
1990:  0.54
1991:  0.53
1992:  0.58
1993*b:  0.56
1994:  0.54
1995:  0.55
1996:  0.60
1997:  0.57
1998:  0.59

Location 
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  0.51
1981:  0.47
1982:  0.70
1983:  0.69
1984*b:  0.77
1985:  0.66
1986:  0.59
1987:  0.78
1988:  0.76
1989:  1.02
1990:  0.84
1991:  0.71
1992:  0.85
1993*b:  0.75
1994:  0.87
1995:  1.02
1996:  1.02
1997:  0.87
1998:  0.92

Location 
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  0.50
1981:  0.25
1982:  0.43
1983:  0.41
1984*b:  0.57
1985:  0.27
1986:  0.43
1987:  0.31
1988:  0.38
1989:  0.66
1990:  1.21
1991:  1.04
1992:  1.08
1993*b:  1.00
1994:  1.24
1995:  1.02
1996:  1.37
1997:  0.94
1998:  0.73

Location 
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  0.74
1981:  1.48
1982:  1.14
1983:  1.26
1984*b:  0.97
1985:  1.10
1986:  0.85
1987:  0.96
1988:  0.80
1989:  0.72
1990:  0.94
1991:  0.85
1992:  0.87
1993*b:  0.81
1994:  0.58
1995:  1.22
1996:  1.14
1997:  0.87
1998:  1.14

Location 
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  0.80
1981:  1.11
1982:  1.26
1983:  1.25
1984*b:  1.71
1985:  1.39
1986:  1.31
1987:  1.29
1988:  1.07
1989:  1.03
1990:  0.98
1991:  1.27
1992:  1.18
1993*b:  1.13
1994:  1.10
1995:  1.17
1996:  1.04
1997:  1.35
1998:  1.11

Location 
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  1.05
1981:  0.91
1982:  1.04
1983:  1.46
1984*b:  1.26
1985:  1.36
1986:  1.31
1987:  1.28
1988:  1.01
1989:  1.43
1990:  1.68
1991:  1.59
1992:  1.77
1993*b:  1.75
1994:  1.46
1995:  1.41
1996:  1.51
1997:  1.50
1998:  1.37

Location 
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  0.66
1981:  1.14
1982:  1.35
1983:  1.38
1984*b:  1.38
1985:  1.23
1986:  1.02
1987:  1.22
1988:  0.81
1989:  0.76
1990:  0.69
1991:  0.84
1992:  0.78
1993*b:  0.82
1994:  0.83
1995:  0.84
1996:  0.53
1997:  0.83
1998:  1.17

Location 
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  0.22
1981:  0.35
1982:  0.37
1983:  0.50
1984*b:  0.47
1985:  0.29
1986:  0.37
1987:  0.45
1988:  0.49
1989:  1.11
1990:  0.73
1991:  1.20
1992:  0.85
1993*b:  1.52
1994:  1.08
1995:  0.75
1996:  0.95
1997:  1.16
1998:  1.05

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.


Appendix Table 2b.  Estimated Standard Errors for the Employment Rates of Non-
Institutionalized Civilian Men without a Disability Aged 25 through 61 with Work 
Limitations in Appendix Table 1b*a

Location 
United States
Employment Year
1980:  1.13
1981:  1.18
1982:  1.19
1983:  1.16
1984*b:  1.13
1985:  1.13
1986:  1.12
1987:  1.14
1988:  1.24
1989:  1.15
1990:  1.15
1991:  1.11
1992:  1.08
1993*b:  1.03
1994:  1.05
1995:  1.14
1996:  1.15
1997:  1.16
1998:  1.13

Location 
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  8.15
1981:  7.51
1982:  6.75
1983:  7.14
1984*b:  12.90
1985:  10.32
1986:  7.71
1987:  10.26
1988:  8.61
1989:  7.83
1990:  7.52
1991:  6.45
1992:  7.41
1993*b:  6.73
1994:  7.15
1995:  7.58
1996:  7.19
1997:  6.95
1998:  8.99

Location 
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  2.32
1981:  3.45
1982:  3.13
1983:  3.14
1984*b:  4.45
1985:  4.05
1986:  3.72
1987:  4.50
1988:  3.49
1989:  11.50
1990:  9.91
1991:  10.23
1992:  9.08
1993*b:  8.43
1994:  7.81
1995:  9.36
1996:  8.68
1997:  8.58
1998:  10.71

Location 
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  9.84
1981:  9.05
1982:  8.33
1983:  10.80
1984*b:  13.62
1985:  10.39
1986:  9.70
1987:  9.58
1988:  10.08
1989:  9.37
1990:  10.88
1991:  10.49
1992:  8.35
1993*b:  9.07
1994:  9.48
1995:  10.26
1996:  8.44
1997:  10.26
1998:  9.85

Location 
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  7.18
1981:  6.65
1982:  7.44
1983:  7.80
1984*b:  6.08
1985:  5.95
1986:  6.05
1987:  6.68
1988:  6.97
1989:  9.09
1990:  8.06
1991:  7.99
1992:  8.56
1993*b:  6.72
1994:  7.15
1995:  5.95
1996:  6.30
1997:  6.32
1998:  7.99

Location 
California
Employment Year
1980:  3.74
1981:  3.92
1982:  4.18
1983:  4.22
1984*b:  4.53
1985:  4.49
1986:  4.46
1987:  4.50
1988:  7.05
1989:  3.71
1990:  3.77
1991:  3.83
1992:  3.39
1993*b:  3.56
1994:  3.56
1995:  3.60
1996:  3.71
1997:  4.06
1998:  3.70

Location 
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  9.72
1981:  10.51
1982:  8.40
1983:  8.53
1984*b:  11.27
1985:  11.35
1986:  9.36
1987:  11.40
1988:  10.29
1989:  9.20
1990:  11.41
1991:  9.80
1992:  8.74
1993*b:  11.63
1994:  10.21
1995:  9.33
1996:  10.01
1997:  10.67
1998:  9.50

Location 
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  10.52
1981:  9.00
1982:  12.56
1983:  12.23
1984*b:  10.98
1985:  11.40
1986:  15.15
1987:  10.66
1988:  14.45
1989:  15.96
1990:  15.04
1991:  12.09
1992:  11.88
1993*b:  11.76
1994:  12.68
1995:  12.41
1996:  12.53
1997:  8.84
1998:  8.59

Location 
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  7.27
1981:  4.56
1982:  5.14
1983:  5.38
1984*b:  4.50
1985:  5.42
1986:  5.26
1987:  6.03
1988:  4.54
1989:  10.36
1990:  11.62
1991:  10.31
1992:  9.21
1993*b:  10.02
1994:  9.39
1995:  10.90
1996:  12.17
1997:  12.31
1998:  13.48

Location 
DC
Employment Year
1980:  7.55
1981:  3.38
1982:  4.52
1983:  4.33
1984*b:  3.96
1985:  4.18
1986:  4.50
1987:  5.17
1988:  4.22
1989:  10.71
1990:  7.59
1991:  10.49
1992:  10.67
1993*b:  9.39
1994:  10.13
1995:  8.23
1996:  9.35
1997:  7.52
1998:  8.04

Location 
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  5.95
1981:  6.97
1982:  6.49
1983:  6.75
1984*b:  4.25
1985:  4.56
1986:  4.53
1987:  4.36
1988:  3.73
1989:  4.76
1990:  4.71
1991:  4.34
1992:  4.56
1993*b:  4.11
1994:  4.08
1995:  4.47
1996:  4.51
1997:  4.45
1998:  4.45

Location 
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  6.46
1981:  8.63
1982:  9.10
1983:  9.41
1984*b:  11.33
1985:  10.04
1986:  10.57
1987:  12.66
1988:  10.72
1989:  9.43
1990:  9.14
1991:  7.36
1992:  8.47
1993*b:  6.54
1994:  7.05
1995:  6.44
1996:  7.82
1997:  7.86
1998:  7.40

Location 
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  6.99
1981:  4.89
1982:  5.74
1983:  6.04
1984*b:  5.63
1985:  5.38
1986:  5.55
1987:  7.71
1988:  6.65
1989:  10.18
1990:  14.53
1991:  9.72
1992:  9.69
1993*b:  9.37
1994:  10.13
1995:  14.04
1996:  10.90
1997:  11.70
1998:  12.36

Location 
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  5.66
1981:  7.12
1982:  5.48
1983:  5.05
1984*b:  4.28
1985:  4.34
1986:  4.64
1987:  4.49
1988:  6.25
1989:  7.90
1990:  9.21
1991:  8.20
1992:  8.83
1993*b:  9.84
1994:  7.95
1995:  8.25
1996:  9.51
1997:  8.07
1998:  10.48

Location 
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  5.70
1981:  7.18
1982:  7.79
1983:  6.90
1984*b:  5.52
1985:  6.13
1986:  5.57
1987:  5.24
1988:  5.37
1989:  5.48
1990:  5.35
1991:  5.26
1992:  4.57
1993*b:  4.70
1994:  5.36
1995:  5.78
1996:  5.42
1997:  5.71
1998:  5.60

Location 
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  9.65
1981:  8.20
1982:  8.03
1983:  9.02
1984*b:  12.06
1985:  10.04
1986:  9.01
1987:  9.22
1988:  14.13
1989:  11.81
1990:  10.73
1991:  9.79
1992:  12.52
1993*b:  11.35
1994:  10.17
1995:  9.08
1996:  9.22
1997:  10.91
1998:  8.54

Location 
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  12.12
1981:  11.00
1982:  11.18
1983:  10.21
1984*b:  9.96
1985:  9.07
1986:  8.83
1987:  9.32
1988:  8.85
1989:  10.38
1990:  10.77
1991:  10.15
1992:  8.96
1993*b:  8.81
1994:  8.48
1995:  11.36
1996:  10.97
1997:  12.19
1998:  9.91

Location 
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  10.62
1981:  13.27
1982:  12.40
1983:  11.11
1984*b:  10.13
1985:  9.29
1986:  8.99
1987:  10.34
1988:  8.75
1989:  10.30
1990:  13.05
1991:  11.12
1992:  9.69
1993*b:  8.87
1994:  8.38
1995:  8.62
1996:  9.43
1997:  10.77
1998:  10.90

Location 
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  8.44
1981:  8.93
1982:  10.68
1983:  9.15
1984*b:  8.87
1985:  8.91
1986:  9.61
1987:  6.17
1988:  8.43
1989:  8.00
1990:  6.96
1991:  6.03
1992:  6.36
1993*b:  5.54
1994:  6.28
1995:  6.29
1996:  8.04
1997:  6.71
1998:  7.11

Location 
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  7.17
1981:  7.30
1982:  6.51
1983:  7.20
1984*b:  13.02
1985:  10.45
1986:  10.57
1987:  10.63
1988:  8.69
1989:  7.96
1990:  8.26
1991:  11.61
1992:  8.59
1993*b:  5.62
1994:  7.25
1995:  7.16
1996:  7.08
1997:  6.61
1998:  6.31

Location 
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  7.04
1981:  5.51
1982:  5.57
1983:  5.52
1984*b:  5.34
1985:  5.30
1986:  5.27
1987:  5.64
1988:  4.89
1989:  9.21
1990:  9.27
1991:  8.13
1992:  7.02
1993*b:  8.11
1994:  7.25
1995:  8.81
1996:  8.83
1997:  8.10
1998:  8.73

Location 
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  10.93
1981:  10.46
1982:  10.35
1983:  9.82
1984*b:  8.75
1985:  11.24
1986:  10.47
1987:  11.45
1988:  11.45
1989:  11.77
1990:  13.58
1991:  11.06
1992:  10.49
1993*b:  7.43
1994:  9.70
1995:  8.85
1996:  10.80
1997:  12.07
1998:  11.44

Location 
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  6.57
1981:  7.32
1982:  7.20
1983:  7.01
1984*b:  4.26
1985:  3.74
1986:  4.64
1987:  4.33
1988:  3.55
1989:  5.71
1990:  4.84
1991:  4.95
1992:  5.46
1993*b:  4.75
1994:  4.63
1995:  6.00
1996:  6.23
1997:  5.95
1998:  6.82

Location 
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  5.91
1981:  6.58
1982:  6.26
1983:  6.05
1984*b:  3.81
1985:  3.98
1986:  4.35
1987:  4.34
1988:  4.05
1989:  4.45
1990:  4.69
1991:  4.72
1992:  4.59
1993*b:  4.26
1994:  4.54
1995:  5.99
1996:  5.74
1997:  5.45
1998:  5.48

Location 
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  10.70
1981:  11.56
1982:  10.57
1983:  9.45
1984*b:  11.61
1985:  10.71
1986:  11.09
1987:  10.55
1988:  9.77
1989:  8.59
1990:  8.77
1991:  8.01
1992:  8.19
1993*b:  7.95
1994:  10.21
1995:  12.52
1996:  10.12
1997:  9.54
1998:  10.97

Location 
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  6.68
1981:  7.45
1982:  6.85
1983:  6.09
1984*b:  6.69
1985:  7.42
1986:  6.98
1987:  6.44
1988:  6.32
1989:  8.11
1990:  6.79
1991:  6.49
1992:  8.70
1993*b:  8.22
1994:  8.30
1995:  8.73
1996:  7.75
1997:  8.37
1998:  6.78

Location 
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  7.92
1981:  7.88
1982:  8.25
1983:  8.09
1984*b:  10.09
1985:  10.28
1986:  10.34
1987:  10.18
1988:  11.10
1989:  9.53
1990:  9.71
1991:  10.10
1992:  9.54
1993*b:  6.69
1994:  8.48
1995:  11.97
1996:  11.60
1997:  9.52
1998:  9.32

Location 
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  5.26
1981:  6.90
1982:  4.57
1983:  4.51
1984*b:  4.54
1985:  4.02
1986:  3.94
1987:  3.84
1988:  3.67
1989:  7.78
1990:  8.39
1991:  8.84
1992:  8.99
1993*b:  8.95
1994:  8.98
1995:  7.95
1996:  7.30
1997:  7.23
1998:  7.32

Location 
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  10.46
1981:  8.31
1982:  7.91
1983:  8.04
1984*b:  6.28
1985:  10.49
1986:  7.75
1987:  6.76
1988:  6.46
1989:  12.62
1990:  9.96
1991:  9.71
1992:  11.35
1993*b:  11.79
1994:  9.76
1995:  11.34
1996:  10.24
1997:  10.65
1998:  11.76

Location 
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  5.16
1981:  7.29
1982:  7.14
1983:  7.80
1984*b:  7.95
1985:  7.17
1986:  7.29
1987:  6.31
1988:  5.72
1989:  12.35
1990:  12.96
1991:  10.21
1992:  9.89
1993*b:  7.85
1994:  10.16
1995:  10.62
1996:  12.20
1997:  11.63
1998:  10.14

Location 
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  9.49
1981:  5.63
1982:  6.40
1983:  6.59
1984*b:  6.91
1985:  8.57
1986:  7.01
1987:  7.03
1988:  6.11
1989:  10.54
1990:  11.23
1991:  9.51
1992:  10.06
1993*b:  8.07
1994:  9.55
1995:  9.79
1996:  9.25
1997:  12.29
1998:  11.31

Location 
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  7.65
1981:  7.74
1982:  8.22
1983:  7.48
1984*b:  4.45
1985:  4.74
1986:  4.36
1987:  4.90
1988:  4.73
1989:  6.71
1990:  6.59
1991:  6.86
1992:  5.95
1993*b:  5.46
1994:  5.23
1995:  7.56
1996:  6.28
1997:  6.53
1998:  7.05

Location 
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  4.96
1981:  5.18
1982:  5.90
1983:  5.54
1984*b:  5.48
1985:  6.35
1986:  5.73
1987:  5.39
1988:  5.12
1989:  7.86
1990:  7.95
1991:  7.78
1992:  7.11
1993*b:  6.35
1994:  7.04
1995:  7.67
1996:  7.21
1997:  7.64
1998:  9.18

Location 
New York
Employment Year
1980:  4.66
1981:  4.89
1982:  5.01
1983:  4.55
1984*b:  3.47
1985:  3.42
1986:  4.08
1987:  3.88
1988:  5.11
1989:  4.02
1990:  3.78
1991:  3.95
1992:  3.60
1993*b:  3.41
1994:  3.62
1995:  4.24
1996:  4.05
1997:  3.92
1998:  3.72

Location 
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  7.27
1981:  7.65
1982:  8.38
1983:  8.42
1984*b:  3.32
1985:  3.14
1986:  3.41
1987:  3.40
1988:  3.38
1989:  4.98
1990:  4.40
1991:  4.53
1992:  4.83
1993*b:  4.55
1994:  4.61
1995:  6.34
1996:  7.13
1997:  6.13
1998:  5.87

Location 
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  5.17
1981:  5.35
1982:  5.14
1983:  5.43
1984*b:  4.37
1985:  3.98
1986:  3.89
1987:  3.89
1988:  3.97
1989:  8.40
1990:  9.02
1991:  9.45
1992:  11.15
1993*b:  10.21
1994:  10.04
1995:  11.97
1996:  11.41
1997:  11.06
1998:  12.99

Location 
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  5.11
1981:  6.11
1982:  6.03
1983:  5.37
1984*b:  4.40
1985:  4.91
1986:  4.55
1987:  4.38
1988:  3.95
1989:  4.76
1990:  4.76
1991:  4.55
1992:  4.65
1993*b:  4.61
1994:  4.49
1995:  5.11
1996:  5.50
1997:  5.62
1998:  5.01

Location 
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  10.69
1981:  8.65
1982:  8.88
1983:  8.60
1984*b:  11.51
1985:  9.74
1986:  8.83
1987:  10.54
1988:  7.58
1989:  8.64
1990:  8.07
1991:  7.79
1992:  8.92
1993*b:  7.61
1994:  7.58
1995:  8.27
1996:  8.52
1997:  8.10
1998:  7.74

Location 
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  9.96
1981:  8.23
1982:  8.44
1983:  9.11
1984*b:  11.16
1985:  9.46
1986:  8.77
1987:  8.58
1988:  8.35
1989:  10.97
1990:  9.32
1991:  8.77
1992:  10.21
1993*b:  9.79
1994:  9.78
1995:  9.73
1996:  9.47
1997:  11.68
1998:  10.15

Location 
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  4.69
1981:  5.95
1982:  5.96
1983:  5.18
1984*b:  3.98
1985:  4.09
1986:  4.19
1987:  5.07
1988:  4.37
1989:  5.43
1990:  5.41
1991:  4.63
1992:  4.36
1993*b:  4.71
1994:  4.52
1995:  5.18
1996:  4.63
1997:  4.74
1998:  4.94

Location 
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  8.79
1981:  6.77
1982:  6.34
1983:  6.20
1984*b:  6.91
1985:  6.64
1986:  6.74
1987:  6.85
1988:  5.78
1989:  11.80
1990:  9.93
1991:  10.19
1992:  9.60
1993*b:  10.98
1994:  8.71
1995:  9.49
1996:  9.67
1997:  8.76
1998:  8.37

Location 
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  7.65
1981:  11.07
1982:  8.14
1983:  7.91
1984*b:  7.22
1985:  6.99
1986:  7.40
1987:  6.84
1988:  7.25
1989:  7.21
1990:  7.26
1991:  6.43
1992:  6.80
1993*b:  7.77
1994:  5.94
1995:  7.95
1996:  12.07
1997:  9.10
1998:  8.51

Location 
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  6.15
1981:  4.67
1982:  4.63
1983:  5.30
1984*b:  3.81
1985:  3.63
1986:  4.22
1987:  4.04
1988:  3.60
1989:  9.35
1990:  9.50
1991:  8.62
1992:  7.50
1993*b:  8.82
1994:  9.75
1995:  10.03
1996:  10.13
1997:  10.58
1998:  9.86

Location 
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  8.22
1981:  8.34
1982:  8.70
1983:  8.93
1984*b:  9.35
1985:  8.11
1986:  9.58
1987:  10.37
1988:  8.85
1989:  7.07
1990:  6.28
1991:  7.63
1992:  6.90
1993*b:  5.14
1994:  6.09
1995:  7.94
1996:  7.50
1997:  8.66
1998:  9.85

Location 
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  5.01
1981:  6.80
1982:  7.11
1983:  6.18
1984*b:  6.16
1985:  6.28
1986:  5.69
1987:  5.72
1988:  5.76
1989:  4.66
1990:  5.30
1991:  4.94
1992:  4.95
1993*b:  5.00
1994:  4.63
1995:  5.12
1996:  5.94
1997:  4.92
1998:  4.77

Location 
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  6.46
1981:  6.90
1982:  7.82
1983:  7.51
1984*b:  8.09
1985:  8.16
1986:  9.04
1987:  10.14
1988:  7.87
1989:  12.07
1990:  11.73
1991:  12.72
1992:  11.22
1993*b:  9.09
1994:  10.33
1995:  10.12
1996:  10.90
1997:  8.46
1998:  11.03

Location 
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  4.48
1981:  4.21
1982:  5.29
1983:  4.37
1984*b:  4.40
1985:  5.15
1986:  4.79
1987:  4.46
1988:  4.71
1989:  12.42
1990:  10.20
1991:  9.67
1992:  8.91
1993*b:  9.78
1994:  10.24
1995:  9.92
1996:  9.20
1997:  9.62
1998:  9.88

Location 
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  8.39
1981:  13.52
1982:  12.27
1983:  12.92
1984*b:  9.59
1985:  9.96
1986:  10.52
1987:  9.71
1988:  9.33
1989:  8.91
1990:  8.89
1991:  9.26
1992:  9.02
1993*b:  7.73
1994:  7.69
1995:  7.63
1996:  8.34
1997:  7.39
1998:  8.76

Location 
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  7.71
1981:  10.37
1982:  10.88
1983:  11.11
1984*b:  12.30
1985:  10.28
1986:  10.41
1987:  12.96
1988:  11.23
1989:  8.96
1990:  7.96
1991:  8.24
1992:  8.87
1993*b:  9.01
1994:  8.76
1995:  8.81
1996:  9.42
1997:  10.28
1998:  10.10

Location 
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  6.11
1981:  4.42
1982:  4.49
1983:  4.10
1984*b:  5.26
1985:  5.76
1986:  5.67
1987:  5.32
1988:  5.28
1989:  6.22
1990:  7.69
1991:  7.52
1992:  6.19
1993*b:  6.08
1994:  4.97
1995:  5.77
1996:  4.83
1997:  5.27
1998:  5.33

Location 
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  8.64
1981:  12.36
1982:  11.74
1983:  13.11
1984*b:  10.34
1985:  13.43
1986:  12.46
1987:  12.21
1988:  10.08
1989:  9.52
1990:  9.53
1991:  9.49
1992:  8.33
1993*b:  8.31
1994:  9.76
1995:  11.33
1996:  9.15
1997:  8.60
1998:  8.18

Location 
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  4.25
1981:  4.50
1982:  4.08
1983:  5.07
1984*b:  5.09
1985:  4.37
1986:  3.95
1987:  4.99
1988:  4.05
1989:  9.77
1990:  11.15
1991:  10.03
1992:  11.03
1993*b:  9.53
1994:  10.22
1995:  9.61
1996:  7.95
1997:  10.47
1998:  9.52



Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.


Appendix Table 2c.  Estimated Standard Errors for the Employment Rates of Non-
Institutionalized Civilian Women without a Disability Aged 25 through 61 without 
Work Limitations in Appendix Table 1c*a

Location 
United States
Employment Year
1980:  0.30
1981:  0.31
1982:  0.31
1983:  0.31
1984*b:  0.30
1985:  0.29
1986:  0.29
1987:  0.28
1988:  0.30
1989:  0.28
1990:  0.27
1991:  0.27
1992:  0.27
1993*b:  0.27
1994:  0.26
1995:  0.28
1996:  0.28
1997:  0.27
1998:  0.27

Location 
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  2.57
1981:  2.49
1982:  2.43
1983:  2.45
1984*b:  3.00
1985:  2.95
1986:  2.73
1987:  2.90
1988:  2.62
1989:  2.46
1990:  2.54
1991:  2.45
1992:  2.43
1993*b:  2.34
1994:  2.27
1995:  2.21
1996:  2.08
1997:  2.11
1998:  2.08

Location 
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  0.57
1981:  0.80
1982:  0.74
1983:  0.71
1984*b:  0.82
1985:  0.82
1986:  0.85
1987:  0.89
1988:  0.82
1989:  2.16
1990:  2.13
1991:  2.02
1992:  2.08
1993*b:  1.79
1994:  1.82
1995:  2.10
1996:  1.85
1997:  2.15
1998:  2.18

Location 
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  2.73
1981:  2.72
1982:  2.57
1983:  2.49
1984*b:  3.06
1985:  2.95
1986:  2.84
1987:  2.65
1988:  2.36
1989:  2.54
1990:  2.35
1991:  2.34
1992:  2.21
1993*b:  2.38
1994:  2.25
1995:  2.37
1996:  2.39
1997:  2.22
1998:  2.19

Location 
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  2.49
1981:  2.29
1982:  2.41
1983:  2.37
1984*b:  2.20
1985:  2.30
1986:  2.12
1987:  2.00
1988:  1.81
1989:  2.28
1990:  2.32
1991:  2.32
1992:  2.44
1993*b:  2.24
1994:  2.15
1995:  2.25
1996:  2.16
1997:  2.24
1998:  2.03

Location 
California
Employment Year
1980:  0.94
1981:  1.06
1982:  1.05
1983:  1.04
1984*b:  1.17
1985:  1.16
1986:  1.11
1987:  1.10
1988:  1.60
1989:  0.94
1990:  0.94
1991:  0.93
1992:  0.92
1993*b:  0.92
1994:  0.90
1995:  1.01
1996:  0.99
1997:  0.96
1998:  0.94

Location 
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  1.95
1981:  2.30
1982:  2.16
1983:  2.01
1984*b:  2.63
1985:  2.62
1986:  2.57
1987:  2.55
1988:  2.17
1989:  2.21
1990:  2.34
1991:  2.37
1992:  2.23
1993*b:  2.15
1994:  2.08
1995:  2.00
1996:  2.01
1997:  1.94
1998:  1.83

Location 
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  2.45
1981:  2.53
1982:  2.50
1983:  2.32
1984*b:  2.42
1985:  2.34
1986:  2.41
1987:  2.24
1988:  2.22
1989:  2.22
1990:  2.35
1991:  2.36
1992:  2.52
1993*b:  2.42
1994:  2.57
1995:  2.34
1996:  2.14
1997:  2.18
1998:  2.25

Location 
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  2.10
1981:  1.31
1982:  1.32
1983:  1.25
1984*b:  1.26
1985:  1.11
1986:  1.10
1987:  1.13
1988:  1.01
1989:  2.25
1990:  2.19
1991:  2.12
1992:  2.25
1993*b:  2.28
1994:  2.05
1995:  2.24
1996:  2.45
1997:  2.11
1998:  2.05

Location 
DC
Employment Year
1980:  2.16
1981:  1.21
1982:  1.20
1983:  1.24
1984*b:  1.08
1985:  1.02
1986:  0.90
1987:  0.90
1988:  0.92
1989:  2.23
1990:  2.44
1991:  2.24
1992:  2.44
1993*b:  2.63
1994:  2.19
1995:  2.08
1996:  2.44
1997:  2.41
1998:  2.27

Location 
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  1.48
1981:  1.89
1982:  1.87
1983:  1.80
1984*b:  1.21
1985:  1.17
1986:  1.11
1987:  1.04
1988:  0.97
1989:  1.17
1990:  1.12
1991:  1.11
1992:  1.08
1993*b:  1.09
1994:  1.09
1995:  1.22
1996:  1.21
1997:  1.20
1998:  1.21

Location 
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  2.03
1981:  2.42
1982:  2.45
1983:  2.30
1984*b:  2.94
1985:  2.99
1986:  2.74
1987:  2.68
1988:  2.57
1989:  2.26
1990:  2.18
1991:  2.19
1992:  2.21
1993*b:  2.05
1994:  2.00
1995:  1.98
1996:  1.99
1997:  1.93
1998:  1.84

Location 
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  1.67
1981:  1.45
1982:  1.38
1983:  1.42
1984*b:  1.44
1985:  1.37
1986:  1.38
1987:  1.34
1988:  1.30
1989:  2.39
1990:  2.29
1991:  2.30
1992:  2.24
1993*b:  2.11
1994:  2.01
1995:  2.37
1996:  2.25
1997:  2.26
1998:  2.20

Location 
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  1.53
1981:  1.56
1982:  1.54
1983:  1.45
1984*b:  1.29
1985:  1.36
1986:  1.34
1987:  1.25
1988:  1.04
1989:  2.10
1990:  2.10
1991:  2.19
1992:  2.20
1993*b:  1.85
1994:  1.81
1995:  2.07
1996:  1.90
1997:  2.12
1998:  1.96

Location 
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  1.43
1981:  1.69
1982:  1.71
1983:  1.72
1984*b:  1.38
1985:  1.34
1986:  1.31
1987:  1.34
1988:  1.19
1989:  1.29
1990:  1.21
1991:  1.19
1992:  1.18
1993*b:  1.15
1994:  1.14
1995:  1.24
1996:  1.29
1997:  1.23
1998:  1.22

Location 
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  2.01
1981:  2.30
1982:  2.18
1983:  2.25
1984*b:  2.52
1985:  2.42
1986:  2.32
1987:  2.35
1988:  2.88
1989:  2.34
1990:  2.24
1991:  2.23
1992:  2.28
1993*b:  2.29
1994:  2.16
1995:  1.88
1996:  1.94
1997:  1.99
1998:  1.95

Location 
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  2.60
1981:  2.53
1982:  2.46
1983:  2.45
1984*b:  2.17
1985:  2.16
1986:  2.00
1987:  1.97
1988:  1.71
1989:  2.02
1990:  2.07
1991:  1.94
1992:  1.99
1993*b:  1.97
1994:  1.66
1995:  1.83
1996:  1.81
1997:  1.88
1998:  1.80

Location 
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  2.30
1981:  2.49
1982:  2.39
1983:  2.36
1984*b:  2.01
1985:  2.01
1986:  1.94
1987:  1.87
1988:  1.58
1989:  2.03
1990:  2.12
1991:  1.94
1992:  1.96
1993*b:  1.89
1994:  2.05
1995:  2.25
1996:  2.02
1997:  2.11
1998:  1.97

Location 
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  2.72
1981:  3.17
1982:  3.08
1983:  2.96
1984*b:  2.90
1985:  2.98
1986:  2.90
1987:  2.79
1988:  2.63
1989:  2.43
1990:  2.32
1991:  2.50
1992:  2.33
1993*b:  2.44
1994:  2.36
1995:  2.36
1996:  2.24
1997:  2.19
1998:  2.23

Location 
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  2.48
1981:  2.45
1982:  2.36
1983:  2.31
1984*b:  3.48
1985:  3.35
1986:  3.39
1987:  3.35
1988:  3.00
1989:  2.74
1990:  2.68
1991:  2.71
1992:  2.67
1993*b:  2.62
1994:  2.58
1995:  2.13
1996:  2.24
1997:  2.17
1998:  2.27

Location 
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  2.09
1981:  1.57
1982:  1.52
1983:  1.51
1984*b:  1.45
1985:  1.43
1986:  1.51
1987:  1.50
1988:  1.31
1989:  2.21
1990:  2.19
1991:  2.11
1992:  2.11
1993*b:  2.21
1994:  2.02
1995:  2.07
1996:  1.92
1997:  2.20
1998:  2.20

Location 
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  2.60
1981:  2.30
1982:  2.44
1983:  2.27
1984*b:  2.22
1985:  2.24
1986:  2.05
1987:  1.96
1988:  2.59
1989:  2.08
1990:  2.18
1991:  2.07
1992:  2.10
1993*b:  2.13
1994:  1.98
1995:  2.15
1996:  2.05
1997:  1.93
1998:  1.90

Location 
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  1.62
1981:  1.71
1982:  1.72
1983:  1.65
1984*b:  0.93
1985:  0.90
1986:  0.89
1987:  0.85
1988:  0.76
1989:  1.12
1990:  1.14
1991:  1.15
1992:  1.11
1993*b:  1.15
1994:  1.10
1995:  1.58
1996:  1.49
1997:  1.48
1998:  1.38

Location 
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  1.69
1981:  1.86
1982:  1.86
1983:  1.83
1984*b:  1.23
1985:  1.26
1986:  1.20
1987:  1.19
1988:  1.05
1989:  1.30
1990:  1.30
1991:  1.27
1992:  1.26
1993*b:  1.23
1994:  1.18
1995:  1.40
1996:  1.40
1997:  1.38
1998:  1.42

Location 
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  2.38
1981:  2.44
1982:  2.52
1983:  2.33
1984*b:  2.72
1985:  2.73
1986:  2.60
1987:  2.31
1988:  2.12
1989:  1.91
1990:  2.00
1991:  1.98
1992:  1.90
1993*b:  1.83
1994:  1.91
1995:  1.90
1996:  1.93
1997:  1.76
1998:  1.68

Location 
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  2.38
1981:  2.19
1982:  2.21
1983:  2.14
1984*b:  2.11
1985:  2.20
1986:  2.20
1987:  2.13
1988:  1.93
1989:  2.32
1990:  2.28
1991:  2.35
1992:  2.38
1993*b:  2.18
1994:  2.19
1995:  2.27
1996:  2.31
1997:  2.25
1998:  2.10

Location 
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  2.09
1981:  2.41
1982:  2.43
1983:  2.34
1984*b:  2.57
1985:  2.47
1986:  2.62
1987:  2.52
1988:  2.73
1989:  2.37
1990:  2.04
1991:  2.11
1992:  2.36
1993*b:  2.39
1994:  2.10
1995:  1.93
1996:  1.96
1997:  2.14
1998:  1.85

Location 
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  1.43
1981:  1.40
1982:  1.42
1983:  1.34
1984*b:  1.15
1985:  1.15
1986:  1.09
1987:  1.15
1988:  0.98
1989:  2.02
1990:  2.13
1991:  1.87
1992:  1.99
1993*b:  1.87
1994:  1.82
1995:  2.11
1996:  2.02
1997:  1.92
1998:  1.84

Location 
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  2.52
1981:  1.84
1982:  1.89
1983:  1.91
1984*b:  1.56
1985:  1.55
1986:  1.48
1987:  1.38
1988:  1.29
1989:  1.98
1990:  1.81
1991:  1.87
1992:  1.87
1993*b:  1.80
1994:  1.77
1995:  1.79
1996:  2.08
1997:  2.08
1998:  2.02

Location 
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  1.30
1981:  1.53
1982:  1.46
1983:  1.52
1984*b:  1.67
1985:  1.64
1986:  1.36
1987:  1.41
1988:  1.27
1989:  2.38
1990:  2.24
1991:  2.19
1992:  2.34
1993*b:  2.08
1994:  2.00
1995:  2.39
1996:  2.24
1997:  2.18
1998:  2.29

Location 
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  2.04
1981:  1.57
1982:  1.48
1983:  1.42
1984*b:  1.62
1985:  1.50
1986:  1.42
1987:  1.59
1988:  1.42
1989:  2.29
1990:  2.14
1991:  2.09
1992:  2.42
1993*b:  2.50
1994:  2.18
1995:  2.25
1996:  2.41
1997:  2.27
1998:  2.31

Location 
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  1.72
1981:  1.91
1982:  1.90
1983:  1.76
1984*b:  1.07
1985:  1.05
1986:  1.01
1987:  1.00
1988:  0.87
1989:  1.18
1990:  1.19
1991:  1.21
1992:  1.22
1993*b:  1.20
1994:  1.18
1995:  1.46
1996:  1.47
1997:  1.44
1998:  1.36

Location 
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  1.73
1981:  1.86
1982:  1.78
1983:  1.78
1984*b:  1.64
1985:  1.62
1986:  1.63
1987:  1.53
1988:  1.42
1989:  2.34
1990:  2.44
1991:  2.34
1992:  2.28
1993*b:  2.29
1994:  2.18
1995:  2.49
1996:  2.49
1997:  2.29
1998:  2.41

Location 
New York
Employment Year
1980:  1.19
1981:  1.29
1982:  1.26
1983:  1.24
1984*b:  0.94
1985:  0.93
1986:  0.92
1987:  0.93
1988:  1.33
1989:  0.96
1990:  0.96
1991:  0.95
1992:  0.94
1993*b:  0.93
1994:  0.96
1995:  1.11
1996:  1.10
1997:  1.07
1998:  1.05

Location 
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  1.98
1981:  2.26
1982:  2.31
1983:  2.14
1984*b:  0.88
1985:  0.85
1986:  0.78
1987:  0.80
1988:  0.71
1989:  1.14
1990:  1.11
1991:  1.07
1992:  1.06
1993*b:  0.99
1994:  1.03
1995:  1.44
1996:  1.43
1997:  1.51
1998:  1.54

Location 
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  1.30
1981:  1.37
1982:  1.34
1983:  1.28
1984*b:  1.01
1985:  0.97
1986:  1.02
1987:  0.98
1988:  0.82
1989:  2.02
1990:  2.02
1991:  1.96
1992:  2.06
1993*b:  1.93
1994:  1.71
1995:  1.91
1996:  1.85
1997:  1.74
1998:  1.88

Location 
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  1.50
1981:  1.70
1982:  1.69
1983:  1.71
1984*b:  1.28
1985:  1.25
1986:  1.24
1987:  1.21
1988:  1.06
1989:  1.24
1990:  1.18
1991:  1.19
1992:  1.18
1993*b:  1.18
1994:  1.18
1995:  1.40
1996:  1.35
1997:  1.32
1998:  1.38

Location 
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  2.99
1981:  2.42
1982:  2.36
1983:  2.23
1984*b:  2.37
1985:  2.22
1986:  2.18
1987:  2.27
1988:  2.08
1989:  2.24
1990:  2.33
1991:  2.33
1992:  2.46
1993*b:  2.40
1994:  2.30
1995:  2.28
1996:  2.18
1997:  2.21
1998:  2.20

Location 
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  2.93
1981:  2.36
1982:  2.41
1983:  2.47
1984*b:  2.69
1985:  2.65
1986:  2.60
1987:  2.76
1988:  2.15
1989:  2.49
1990:  2.63
1991:  2.31
1992:  2.04
1993*b:  2.09
1994:  2.25
1995:  2.01
1996:  2.29
1997:  2.16
1998:  2.33

Location 
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  1.46
1981:  1.66
1982:  1.66
1983:  1.63
1984*b:  1.36
1985:  1.31
1986:  1.31
1987:  1.29
1988:  1.10
1989:  1.21
1990:  1.21
1991:  1.22
1992:  1.21
1993*b:  1.21
1994:  1.21
1995:  1.30
1996:  1.24
1997:  1.25
1998:  1.21

Location 
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  2.35
1981:  1.62
1982:  1.71
1983:  1.61
1984*b:  1.63
1985:  1.57
1986:  1.55
1987:  1.51
1988:  1.45
1989:  2.57
1990:  2.28
1991:  2.45
1992:  2.53
1993*b:  2.40
1994:  2.36
1995:  2.50
1996:  2.21
1997:  2.29
1998:  2.30

Location 
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  2.75
1981:  2.29
1982:  2.37
1983:  2.35
1984*b:  2.08
1985:  2.02
1986:  2.02
1987:  1.95
1988:  1.78
1989:  1.99
1990:  1.89
1991:  1.96
1992:  1.99
1993*b:  2.07
1994:  2.02
1995:  2.49
1996:  2.42
1997:  2.18
1998:  2.13

Location 
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  1.29
1981:  1.22
1982:  1.21
1983:  1.17
1984*b:  0.84
1985:  0.89
1986:  0.88
1987:  0.76
1988:  0.66
1989:  1.89
1990:  1.85
1991:  1.80
1992:  1.76
1993*b:  1.80
1994:  1.73
1995:  1.73
1996:  1.70
1997:  1.91
1998:  1.72

Location 
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  2.31
1981:  2.81
1982:  2.87
1983:  2.78
1984*b:  2.89
1985:  2.92
1986:  2.95
1987:  2.74
1988:  2.50
1989:  2.25
1990:  2.26
1991:  2.26
1992:  2.15
1993*b:  1.96
1994:  1.99
1995:  2.20
1996:  2.14
1997:  2.16
1998:  2.23

Location 
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  1.34
1981:  1.68
1982:  1.64
1983:  1.61
1984*b:  1.53
1985:  1.53
1986:  1.51
1987:  1.47
1988:  1.34
1989:  1.20
1990:  1.21
1991:  1.17
1992:  1.20
1993*b:  1.17
1994:  1.12
1995:  1.20
1996:  1.16
1997:  1.17
1998:  1.13

Location 
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  1.66
1981:  1.96
1982:  1.93
1983:  1.94
1984*b:  1.99
1985:  1.91
1986:  1.84
1987:  1.82
1988:  1.55
1989:  2.53
1990:  2.47
1991:  2.34
1992:  2.36
1993*b:  2.17
1994:  2.37
1995:  2.42
1996:  2.21
1997:  2.29
1998:  2.15

Location 
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  1.34
1981:  1.14
1982:  1.17
1983:  1.13
1984*b:  1.17
1985:  1.04
1986:  1.04
1987:  1.02
1988:  0.85
1989:  2.15
1990:  2.05
1991:  2.18
1992:  1.99
1993*b:  1.76
1994:  2.05
1995:  2.09
1996:  2.21
1997:  2.10
1998:  1.88

Location 
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  2.22
1981:  3.00
1982:  3.08
1983:  2.94
1984*b:  2.56
1985:  2.62
1986:  2.53
1987:  2.35
1988:  2.25
1989:  1.95
1990:  1.85
1991:  1.79
1992:  1.74
1993*b:  1.80
1994:  1.65
1995:  2.05
1996:  2.14
1997:  2.13
1998:  2.15

Location 
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  2.50
1981:  2.84
1982:  2.86
1983:  2.86
1984*b:  3.18
1985:  3.09
1986:  3.21
1987:  2.73
1988:  2.51
1989:  2.23
1990:  2.23
1991:  2.23
1992:  2.17
1993*b:  2.03
1994:  2.17
1995:  2.30
1996:  2.20
1997:  2.16
1998:  2.21

Location 
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  2.74
1981:  2.02
1982:  2.07
1983:  2.07
1984*b:  2.09
1985:  2.12
1986:  2.07
1987:  2.04
1988:  1.92
1989:  2.66
1990:  2.64
1991:  2.73
1992:  2.80
1993*b:  2.62
1994:  2.64
1995:  2.34
1996:  2.37
1997:  2.31
1998:  2.44

Location 
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  2.22
1981:  3.00
1982:  2.97
1983:  2.98
1984*b:  2.71
1985:  2.61
1986:  2.50
1987:  2.46
1988:  2.03
1989:  2.07
1990:  1.81
1991:  1.76
1992:  1.77
1993*b:  1.68
1994:  1.64
1995:  1.67
1996:  1.55
1997:  1.53
1998:  1.74

Location 
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  1.01
1981:  1.15
1982:  1.16
1983:  1.15
1984*b:  1.28
1985:  1.19
1986:  1.22
1987:  1.21
1988:  1.08
1989:  2.65
1990:  2.45
1991:  2.48
1992:  2.32
1993*b:  2.42
1994:  2.36
1995:  2.14
1996:  2.08
1997:  2.26
1998:  2.24



Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.


Appendix Table 2d.  Estimated Standard Errors for the Employment Rates of Non-
Institutionalized Civilian Women without a Disability Aged 25 through 61 with 
Work Limitations in Appendix Table 1d*a

Location 
United States
Employment Year
1980:  1.03
1981:  1.07
1982:  1.11
1983:  1.09
1984*b:  1.08
1985:  1.11
1986:  1.10
1987:  1.14
1988:  1.24
1989:  1.17
1990:  1.12
1991:  1.11
1992:  1.10
1993*b:  1.04
1994:  1.03
1995:  1.10
1996:  1.09
1997:  1.07
1998:  1.07

Location 
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  6.97
1981:  7.26
1982:  7.28
1983:  4.42
1984*b:  8.38
1985:  8.67
1986:  9.23
1987:  8.19
1988:  9.37
1989:  7.56
1990:  7.07
1991:  7.08
1992:  7.52
1993*b:  6.56
1994:  7.25
1995:  6.37
1996:  7.44
1997:  6.91
1998:  6.98

Location 
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  2.28
1981:  3.86
1982:  3.88
1983:  3.60
1984*b:  5.10
1985:  4.81
1986:  3.77
1987:  4.11
1988:  5.42
1989:  11.17
1990:  11.27
1991:  9.18
1992:  10.81
1993*b:  7.99
1994:  9.74
1995:  11.88
1996:  10.04
1997:  8.11
1998:  9.60

Location 
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  8.76
1981:  9.19
1982:  9.63
1983:  7.77
1984*b:  11.02
1985:  10.36
1986:  10.05
1987:  13.13
1988:  10.39
1989:  11.29
1990:  11.60
1991:  10.36
1992:  9.03
1993*b:  8.89
1994:  9.62
1995:  9.54
1996:  7.56
1997:  8.31
1998:  9.47

Location 
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  5.73
1981:  6.40
1982:  5.50
1983:  6.58
1984*b:  7.14
1985:  6.48
1986:  6.86
1987:  6.70
1988:  6.19
1989:  9.18
1990:  7.97
1991:  8.33
1992:  7.31
1993*b:  7.71
1994:  7.71
1995:  6.91
1996:  7.70
1997:  7.33
1998:  6.43

Location 
California
Employment Year
1980:  3.17
1981:  3.68
1982:  3.74
1983:  3.60
1984*b:  4.25
1985:  4.44
1986:  4.19
1987:  4.47
1988:  6.92
1989:  3.96
1990:  3.70
1991:  3.80
1992:  3.52
1993*b:  3.24
1994:  3.48
1995:  3.84
1996:  3.84
1997:  3.59
1998:  3.70

Location 
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  7.85
1981:  10.58
1982:  10.20
1983:  11.47
1984*b:  10.89
1985:  13.86
1986:  10.85
1987:  10.48
1988:  10.49
1989:  11.16
1990:  11.08
1991:  8.81
1992:  10.93
1993*b:  10.97
1994:  10.37
1995:  8.79
1996:  10.07
1997:  9.16
1998:  8.43

Location 
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  10.57
1981:  12.44
1982:  11.10
1983:  11.41
1984*b:  11.05
1985:  10.88
1986:  11.48
1987:  11.61
1988:  11.18
1989:  14.61
1990:  12.38
1991:  12.00
1992:  10.97
1993*b:  10.34
1994:  13.98
1995:  13.65
1996:  12.06
1997:  11.07
1998:  9.57

Location 
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  7.12
1981:  4.23
1982:  4.65
1983:  7.25
1984*b:  5.01
1985:  4.97
1986:  3.40
1987:  5.05
1988:  4.20
1989:  11.52
1990:  13.10
1991:  12.51
1992:  11.36
1993*b:  12.38
1994:  10.48
1995:  9.14
1996:  8.44
1997:  10.55
1998:  11.01

Location 
DC
Employment Year
1980:  8.83
1981:  5.03
1982:  3.39
1983:  3.60
1984*b:  4.30
1985:  4.13
1986:  4.18
1987:  4.32
1988:  4.14
1989:  8.43
1990:  8.79
1991:  10.04
1992:  11.41
1993*b:  10.65
1994:  8.51
1995:  8.07
1996:  7.84
1997:  10.17
1998:  10.48

Location 
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  4.98
1981:  6.13
1982:  5.75
1983:  5.54
1984*b:  4.19
1985:  3.86
1986:  4.56
1987:  4.65
1988:  4.41
1989:  5.40
1990:  5.11
1991:  4.64
1992:  5.00
1993*b:  4.77
1994:  4.10
1995:  4.41
1996:  4.49
1997:  4.68
1998:  4.51

Location 
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  6.30
1981:  9.23
1982:  8.35
1983:  6.83
1984*b:  11.17
1985:  11.35
1986:  9.79
1987:  9.82
1988:  8.85
1989:  7.24
1990:  7.70
1991:  6.05
1992:  7.13
1993*b:  7.95
1994:  7.67
1995:  6.59
1996:  7.54
1997:  8.43
1998:  6.81

Location 
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  6.03
1981:  6.88
1982:  6.60
1983:  5.63
1984*b:  6.63
1985:  6.45
1986:  6.62
1987:  7.63
1988:  7.72
1989:  11.11
1990:  11.79
1991:  11.44
1992:  10.43
1993*b:  11.18
1994:  10.30
1995:  14.87
1996:  13.55
1997:  12.49
1998:  14.41

Location 
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  5.80
1981:  5.43
1982:  5.82
1983:  5.57
1984*b:  5.39
1985:  4.88
1986:  5.22
1987:  5.32
1988:  4.20
1989:  9.71
1990:  9.12
1991:  9.06
1992:  10.05
1993*b:  11.16
1994:  8.59
1995:  8.49
1996:  8.18
1997:  8.40
1998:  9.76

Location 
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  5.25
1981:  5.67
1982:  6.66
1983:  6.35
1984*b:  4.77
1985:  4.82
1986:  4.97
1987:  5.21
1988:  4.60
1989:  5.34
1990:  5.04
1991:  6.10
1992:  4.84
1993*b:  4.62
1994:  4.60
1995:  5.54
1996:  5.30
1997:  5.18
1998:  5.45

Location 
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  7.31
1981:  6.10
1982:  7.96
1983:  8.04
1984*b:  8.67
1985:  9.09
1986:  8.04
1987:  8.26
1988:  13.59
1989:  11.46
1990:  10.92
1991:  10.06
1992:  10.11
1993*b:  8.83
1994:  8.10
1995:  8.68
1996:  9.71
1997:  8.17
1998:  7.20

Location 
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  7.39
1981:  9.18
1982:  12.15
1983:  10.21
1984*b:  9.71
1985:  9.32
1986:  8.74
1987:  9.48
1988:  9.94
1989:  9.49
1990:  10.36
1991:  11.59
1992:  10.09
1993*b:  11.55
1994:  11.66
1995:  10.36
1996:  10.11
1997:  10.14
1998:  12.21

Location 
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  8.53
1981:  10.34
1982:  9.87
1983:  11.38
1984*b:  11.22
1985:  9.59
1986:  11.34
1987:  9.79
1988:  8.45
1989:  9.79
1990:  10.46
1991:  12.08
1992:  12.06
1993*b:  9.07
1994:  9.39
1995:  11.45
1996:  10.83
1997:  9.09
1998:  9.79

Location 
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  8.46
1981:  8.26
1982:  8.65
1983:  11.43
1984*b:  11.84
1985:  9.13
1986:  8.33
1987:  6.93
1988:  8.42
1989:  8.98
1990:  6.51
1991:  6.79
1992:  6.52
1993*b:  4.91
1994:  6.16
1995:  6.07
1996:  6.84
1997:  5.73
1998:  6.73

Location 
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  6.08
1981:  5.83
1982:  7.49
1983:  7.20
1984*b:  10.49
1985:  8.36
1986:  9.50
1987:  6.69
1988:  9.05
1989:  6.95
1990:  9.22
1991:  8.82
1992:  8.24
1993*b:  5.64
1994:  8.54
1995:  7.24
1996:  6.76
1997:  8.90
1998:  6.30

Location 
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  5.46
1981:  4.89
1982:  6.47
1983:  5.69
1984*b:  5.63
1985:  4.82
1986:  5.50
1987:  4.89
1988:  4.43
1989:  9.96
1990:  11.09
1991:  10.38
1992:  8.60
1993*b:  8.45
1994:  6.97
1995:  9.48
1996:  8.81
1997:  8.64
1998:  8.96

Location 
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  9.78
1981:  8.64
1982:  8.87
1983:  10.55
1984*b:  8.81
1985:  9.72
1986:  11.15
1987:  11.12
1988:  12.23
1989:  10.13
1990:  8.15
1991:  8.83
1992:  10.97
1993*b:  9.47
1994:  10.74
1995:  11.63
1996:  10.88
1997:  11.51
1998:  10.67

Location 
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  6.49
1981:  5.85
1982:  7.81
1983:  6.13
1984*b:  3.83
1985:  3.91
1986:  4.27
1987:  4.06
1988:  3.62
1989:  5.06
1990:  5.04
1991:  5.15
1992:  5.25
1993*b:  5.05
1994:  4.92
1995:  5.44
1996:  6.62
1997:  6.47
1998:  6.67

Location 
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  5.35
1981:  5.29
1982:  5.44
1983:  5.41
1984*b:  3.44
1985:  3.82
1986:  3.84
1987:  4.02
1988:  3.61
1989:  4.39
1990:  4.51
1991:  4.32
1992:  4.40
1993*b:  4.44
1994:  4.36
1995:  5.47
1996:  4.68
1997:  4.77
1998:  5.18

Location 
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  10.33
1981:  12.27
1982:  11.45
1983:  11.75
1984*b:  12.88
1985:  13.16
1986:  11.98
1987:  13.03
1988:  14.77
1989:  9.49
1990:  9.85
1991:  9.41
1992:  10.02
1993*b:  9.36
1994:  10.07
1995:  11.40
1996:  10.10
1997:  10.47
1998:  10.86

Location 
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  5.51
1981:  5.30
1982:  4.90
1983:  4.25
1984*b:  5.36
1985:  5.69
1986:  6.11
1987:  6.74
1988:  5.33
1989:  7.45
1990:  6.77
1991:  6.65
1992:  7.39
1993*b:  7.14
1994:  7.58
1995:  7.57
1996:  5.38
1997:  5.35
1998:  8.37

Location 
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  7.23
1981:  8.80
1982:  9.21
1983:  9.00
1984*b:  8.67
1985:  10.33
1986:  10.43
1987:  10.78
1988:  11.92
1989:  10.49
1990:  9.28
1991:  10.42
1992:  9.01
1993*b:  8.80
1994:  8.80
1995:  9.72
1996:  8.21
1997:  9.51
1998:  10.07

Location 
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  5.82
1981:  5.93
1982:  5.09
1983:  4.61
1984*b:  4.77
1985:  4.35
1986:  5.06
1987:  4.58
1988:  4.16
1989:  10.35
1990:  9.40
1991:  8.50
1992:  9.65
1993*b:  8.54
1994:  8.63
1995:  9.22
1996:  9.95
1997:  9.95
1998:  8.86

Location 
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  9.79
1981:  8.68
1982:  9.48
1983:  9.08
1984*b:  8.24
1985:  8.04
1986:  7.45
1987:  8.05
1988:  7.45
1989:  11.29
1990:  10.56
1991:  11.71
1992:  11.48
1993*b:  10.06
1994:  12.67
1995:  10.83
1996:  10.53
1997:  10.13
1998:  9.97

Location 
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  5.68
1981:  7.87
1982:  7.11
1983:  6.82
1984*b:  7.35
1985:  7.40
1986:  9.01
1987:  6.36
1988:  6.40
1989:  12.63
1990:  9.94
1991:  9.09
1992:  10.56
1993*b:  9.13
1994:  7.41
1995:  10.76
1996:  10.57
1997:  10.12
1998:  10.24

Location 
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  8.16
1981:  6.08
1982:  6.12
1983:  6.53
1984*b:  8.47
1985:  7.88
1986:  6.91
1987:  8.36
1988:  6.37
1989:  12.45
1990:  11.64
1991:  12.31
1992:  10.67
1993*b:  11.58
1994:  13.13
1995:  12.92
1996:  9.29
1997:  9.75
1998:  9.07

Location 
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  6.35
1981:  5.95
1982:  6.71
1983:  8.34
1984*b:  4.72
1985:  4.46
1986:  4.37
1987:  4.75
1988:  4.91
1989:  6.19
1990:  6.47
1991:  6.06
1992:  5.36
1993*b:  5.28
1994:  4.94
1995:  6.25
1996:  5.73
1997:  6.22
1998:  6.71

Location 
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  6.43
1981:  5.27
1982:  6.76
1983:  5.98
1984*b:  5.16
1985:  6.16
1986:  5.25
1987:  6.39
1988:  5.57
1989:  9.34
1990:  8.60
1991:  8.99
1992:  8.18
1993*b:  7.55
1994:  8.80
1995:  7.99
1996:  8.24
1997:  9.59
1998:  9.16

Location 
New York
Employment Year
1980:  3.62
1981:  3.73
1982:  4.40
1983:  3.70
1984*b:  2.80
1985:  3.38
1986:  3.31
1987:  3.53
1988:  4.99
1989:  3.80
1990:  3.73
1991:  3.70
1992:  3.71
1993*b:  3.35
1994:  3.22
1995:  3.77
1996:  3.80
1997:  3.62
1998:  3.28

Location 
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  6.93
1981:  7.31
1982:  7.22
1983:  8.73
1984*b:  3.33
1985:  3.40
1986:  3.86
1987:  3.76
1988:  3.06
1989:  4.62
1990:  4.39
1991:  4.89
1992:  4.56
1993*b:  4.06
1994:  3.65
1995:  5.93
1996:  6.31
1997:  5.93
1998:  5.04

Location 
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  4.49
1981:  5.69
1982:  8.02
1983:  5.54
1984*b:  4.28
1985:  4.47
1986:  5.40
1987:  4.96
1988:  4.05
1989:  10.06
1990:  10.06
1991:  11.01
1992:  12.81
1993*b:  12.35
1994:  11.82
1995:  13.72
1996:  11.69
1997:  11.63
1998:  9.82

Location 
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  4.58
1981:  5.43
1982:  5.24
1983:  5.08
1984*b:  3.76
1985:  4.40
1986:  4.60
1987:  5.08
1988:  4.44
1989:  4.96
1990:  4.85
1991:  4.48
1992:  4.72
1993*b:  4.44
1994:  4.40
1995:  4.49
1996:  4.86
1997:  5.45
1998:  4.90

Location 
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  10.58
1981:  8.92
1982:  8.61
1983:  8.09
1984*b:  9.06
1985:  7.79
1986:  9.64
1987:  11.31
1988:  8.13
1989:  9.35
1990:  9.73
1991:  9.36
1992:  8.91
1993*b:  7.94
1994:  8.44
1995:  8.29
1996:  8.36
1997:  7.41
1998:  7.56

Location 
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  9.29
1981:  8.80
1982:  10.37
1983:  8.66
1984*b:  9.96
1985:  10.44
1986:  11.67
1987:  11.31
1988:  8.62
1989:  10.26
1990:  9.43
1991:  8.58
1992:  8.76
1993*b:  10.03
1994:  9.05
1995:  8.69
1996:  8.58
1997:  8.21
1998:  8.87

Location 
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  4.25
1981:  4.32
1982:  6.02
1983:  4.80
1984*b:  3.40
1985:  4.61
1986:  4.31
1987:  4.37
1988:  4.37
1989:  4.91
1990:  4.76
1991:  4.74
1992:  4.72
1993*b:  4.56
1994:  4.10
1995:  4.40
1996:  4.75
1997:  4.82
1998:  4.45

Location 
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  7.87
1981:  4.83
1982:  4.67
1983:  4.98
1984*b:  5.58
1985:  5.90
1986:  6.67
1987:  6.14
1988:  5.55
1989:  12.68
1990:  11.66
1991:  10.26
1992:  9.89
1993*b:  10.39
1994:  11.56
1995:  8.30
1996:  8.50
1997:  8.77
1998:  9.69

Location 
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  9.05
1981:  8.68
1982:  9.39
1983:  8.83
1984*b:  7.54
1985:  7.16
1986:  6.71
1987:  7.60
1988:  6.11
1989:  8.13
1990:  7.20
1991:  6.37
1992:  5.68
1993*b:  6.80
1994:  7.83
1995:  5.30
1996:  8.51
1997:  8.28
1998:  7.03

Location 
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  6.47
1981:  6.69
1982:  4.68
1983:  5.49
1984*b:  4.96
1985:  3.71
1986:  4.57
1987:  4.06
1988:  3.59
1989:  9.32
1990:  8.59
1991:  10.17
1992:  8.74
1993*b:  7.86
1994:  8.67
1995:  10.26
1996:  9.73
1997:  10.14
1998:  10.32

Location 
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  6.88
1981:  8.91
1982:  5.77
1983:  7.48
1984*b:  8.90
1985:  7.31
1986:  6.89
1987:  8.38
1988:  8.07
1989:  6.65
1990:  6.40
1991:  7.29
1992:  6.20
1993*b:  5.74
1994:  6.91
1995:  7.61
1996:  6.48
1997:  5.90
1998:  7.98

Location 
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  5.24
1981:  7.29
1982:  6.87
1983:  6.59
1984*b:  7.22
1985:  6.75
1986:  6.23
1987:  6.27
1988:  5.75
1989:  5.28
1990:  5.02
1991:  4.87
1992:  5.20
1993*b:  4.49
1994:  4.86
1995:  5.10
1996:  4.88
1997:  4.37
1998:  4.81

Location 
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  7.19
1981:  9.16
1982:  6.95
1983:  7.59
1984*b:  8.04
1985:  8.07
1986:  8.88
1987:  9.30
1988:  7.65
1989:  9.59
1990:  14.56
1991:  11.60
1992:  15.02
1993*b:  10.85
1994:  10.24
1995:  10.28
1996:  11.87
1997:  10.38
1998:  10.93

Location 
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  5.46
1981:  4.93
1982:  4.50
1983:  4.91
1984*b:  5.37
1985:  5.11
1986:  4.48
1987:  5.50
1988:  4.45
1989:  11.75
1990:  10.59
1991:  8.69
1992:  9.00
1993*b:  8.52
1994:  9.63
1995:  11.77
1996:  11.08
1997:  9.75
1998:  10.09

Location 
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  9.10
1981:  11.16
1982:  11.27
1983:  13.17
1984*b:  11.29
1985:  11.07
1986:  11.87
1987:  10.45
1988:  7.20
1989:  8.40
1990:  8.31
1991:  7.81
1992:  9.21
1993*b:  10.89
1994:  8.39
1995:  8.11
1996:  7.72
1997:  6.23
1998:  7.25

Location 
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  6.92
1981:  11.48
1982:  10.16
1983:  11.73
1984*b:  11.17
1985:  11.22
1986:  11.18
1987:  11.62
1988:  14.08
1989:  9.86
1990:  8.32
1991:  9.48
1992:  12.75
1993*b:  8.05
1994:  7.36
1995:  9.20
1996:  9.08
1997:  10.12
1998:  7.83

Location 
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  7.83
1981:  6.14
1982:  4.23
1983:  5.16
1984*b:  4.56
1985:  3.54
1986:  7.10
1987:  4.96
1988:  4.75
1989:  7.24
1990:  8.01
1991:  8.33
1992:  5.50
1993*b:  5.67
1994:  4.86
1995:  5.14
1996:  5.42
1997:  5.48
1998:  4.77

Location 
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  11.18
1981:  12.58
1982:  14.08
1983:  12.62
1984*b:  11.84
1985:  12.98
1986:  11.96
1987:  13.47
1988:  11.16
1989:  9.20
1990:  9.94
1991:  10.76
1992:  9.82
1993*b:  8.73
1994:  9.00
1995:  9.28
1996:  9.20
1997:  9.00
1998:  10.64

Location 
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  4.59
1981:  5.54
1982:  5.01
1983:  5.33
1984*b:  5.34
1985:  4.68
1986:  3.63
1987:  4.50
1988:  4.96
1989:  12.39
1990:  14.87
1991:  11.74
1992:  11.56
1993*b:  12.37
1994:  11.35
1995:  8.73
1996:  10.50
1997:  9.45
1998:  9.75



Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.



Appendix Table 3a.  Estimated Population of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men 
without a Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State 
and the District of Columbia, 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)a
Location
United States
Employment Year
1980:  45,139
1981:  45,989
1982:  47,035
1983:  47,949
1984*b:  48,726
1985:  49,984
1986:  50,899
1987:  52,084
1988:  53,103
1989:  53,860
1990:  54,760
1991:  55,332
1992:  56,091
1993*b:  56,767
1994:  57,502
1995:  58,529
1996:  59,475
1997:  60,337
1998:  60,600

Location
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  703
1981:  728
1982:  791
1983:  806
1984*b:  779
1985:  826
1986:  810
1987:  831
1988:  850
1989:  835
1990:  851
1991:  856
1992:  887
1993*b:  824
1994:  897
1995:  850
1996:  850
1997:  939
1998:  914

Location
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  82
1981:  86
1982:  101
1983:  108
1984*b:  112
1985:  123
1986:  115
1987:  112
1988:  112
1989:  116
1990:  119
1991:  121
1992:  128
1993*b:  138
1994:  140
1995:  146
1996:  149
1997:  149
1998:  144

Location
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  512
1981:  534
1982:  541
1983:  594
1984*b:  615
1985:  700
1986:  701
1987:  735
1988:  764
1989:  731
1990:  754
1991:  788
1992:  702
1993*b:  877
1994:  911
1995:  883
1996:  939
1997:  975
1998:  1,055

Location
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  400
1981:  394
1982:  384
1983:  397
1984*b:  420
1985:  441
1986:  427
1987:  471
1988:  483
1989:  464
1990:  476
1991:  482
1992:  483
1993*b:  481
1994:  536
1995:  497
1996:  513
1997:  486
1998:  483

Location
California
Employment Year
1980:  5,035
1981:  5,155
1982:  5,345
1983:  5,433
1984*b:  5,622
1985:  5,934
1986:  6,073
1987:  6,358
1988:  6,293
1989:  6,604
1990:  6,834
1991:  7,133
1992:  7,145
1993*b:  7,118
1994:  7,246
1995:  7,395
1996:  7,686
1997:  7,616
1998:  7,680

Location
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  667
1981:  650
1982:  694
1983:  734
1984*b:  706
1985:  755
1986:  690
1987:  740
1988:  695
1989:  706
1990:  774
1991:  818
1992:  775
1993*b:  869
1994:  936
1995:  948
1996:  932
1997:  985
1998:  1,022

Location
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  641
1981:  674
1982:  716
1983:  735
1984*b:  739
1985:  689
1986:  716
1987:  694
1988:  757
1989:  823
1990:  760
1991:  762
1992:  795
1993*b:  731
1994:  696
1995:  740
1996:  711
1997:  736
1998:  730

Location
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  120
1981:  121
1982:  126
1983:  120
1984*b:  124
1985:  134
1986:  143
1987:  148
1988:  153
1989:  154
1990:  166
1991:  159
1992:  178
1993*b:  172
1994:  159
1995:  166
1996:  165
1997:  153
1998:  164

Location
DC
Employment Year
1980:  126
1981:  133
1982:  141
1983:  140
1984*b:  130
1985:  138
1986:  133
1987:  138
1988:  135
1989:  131
1990:  127
1991:  119
1992:  131
1993*b:  148
1994:  141
1995:  115
1996:  123
1997:  125
1998:  120

Location
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  1,858
1981:  1,865
1982:  1,912
1983:  2,035
1984*b:  2,161
1985:  2,264
1986:  2,334
1987:  2,435
1988:  2,638
1989:  2,689
1990:  2,734
1991:  2,737
1992:  2,932
1993*b:  2,840
1994:  2,882
1995:  2,995
1996:  3,072
1997:  3,206
1998:  3,075

Location
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  988
1981:  1,058
1982:  1,099
1983:  1,161
1984*b:  1,123
1985:  1,172
1986:  1,277
1987:  1,271
1988:  1,318
1989:  1,333
1990:  1,419
1991:  1,342
1992:  1,397
1993*b:  1,573
1994:  1,621
1995:  1,576
1996:  1,735
1997:  1,685
1998:  1,660

Location
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  187
1981:  194
1982:  191
1983:  204
1984*b:  211
1985:  221
1986:  211
1987:  228
1988:  225
1989:  239
1990:  257
1991:  250
1992:  256
1993*b:  246
1994:  253
1995:  256
1996:  253
1997:  241
1998:  258

Location
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  176
1981:  192
1982:  184
1983:  187
1984*b:  193
1985:  198
1986:  192
1987:  189
1988:  203
1989:  213
1990:  221
1991:  217
1992:  222
1993*b:  242
1994:  254
1995:  253
1996:  264
1997:  273
1998:  284

Location
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  2,260
1981:  2,315
1982:  2,454
1983:  2,432
1984*b:  2,434
1985:  2,448
1986:  2,486
1987:  2,518
1988:  2,572
1989:  2,653
1990:  2,652
1991:  2,670
1992:  2,648
1993*b:  2,579
1994:  2,545
1995:  2,652
1996:  2,566
1997:  2,687
1998:  2,738

Location
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  1,083
1981:  1,095
1982:  1,098
1983:  1,122
1984*b:  1,226
1985:  1,181
1986:  1,134
1987:  1,165
1988:  1,254
1989:  1,217
1990:  1,175
1991:  1,181
1992:  1,268
1993*b:  1,235
1994:  1,226
1995:  1,301
1996:  1,307
1997:  1,362
1998:  1,331

Location
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  573
1981:  571
1982:  560
1983:  583
1984*b:  594
1985:  549
1986:  595
1987:  620
1988:  626
1989:  629
1990:  625
1991:  607
1992:  638
1993*b:  616
1994:  597
1995:  620
1996:  644
1997:  636
1998:  638

Location
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  450
1981:  442
1982:  488
1983:  496
1984*b:  529
1985:  481
1986:  497
1987:  516
1988:  511
1989:  529
1990:  531
1991:  546
1992:  570
1993*b:  528
1994:  545
1995:  547
1996:  538
1997:  554
1998:  561

Location
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  704
1981:  705
1982:  731
1983:  741
1984*b:  746
1985:  751
1986:  721
1987:  762
1988:  695
1989:  717
1990:  732
1991:  706
1992:  747
1993*b:  751
1994:  773
1995:  807
1996:  800
1997:  813
1998:  807

Location
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  756
1981:  806
1982:  838
1983:  855
1984*b:  823
1985:  836
1986:  866
1987:  829
1988:  853
1989:  828
1990:  796
1991:  886
1992:  823
1993*b:  775
1994:  884
1995:  903
1996:  881
1997:  941
1998:  850

Location
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  214
1981:  226
1982:  233
1983:  232
1984*b:  236
1985:  233
1986:  245
1987:  242
1988:  253
1989:  267
1990:  274
1991:  278
1992:  279
1993*b:  268
1994:  258
1995:  285
1996:  291
1997:  275
1998:  287

Location
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  931
1981:  900
1982:  879
1983:  935
1984*b:  930
1985:  947
1986:  1,016
1987:  1,033
1988:  1,082
1989:  1,083
1990:  1,171
1991:  1,144
1992:  1,193
1993*b:  1,139
1994:  1,204
1995:  1,178
1996:  1,158
1997:  1,214
1998:  1,226

Location
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  1,176
1981:  1,226
1982:  1,219
1983:  1,269
1984*b:  1,223
1985:  1,214
1986:  1,257
1987:  1,279
1988:  1,332
1989:  1,302
1990:  1,320
1991:  1,386
1992:  1,405
1993*b:  1,400
1994:  1,382
1995:  1,445
1996:  1,410
1997:  1,388
1998:  1,403

Location
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  1,849
1981:  1,826
1982:  1,781
1983:  1,870
1984*b:  1,825
1985:  1,868
1986:  1,899
1987:  1,996
1988:  2,007
1989:  1,954
1990:  2,071
1991:  2,063
1992:  2,055
1993*b:  2,102
1994:  2,062
1995:  2,089
1996:  2,112
1997:  2,123
1998:  2,242

Location
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  812
1981:  846
1982:  865
1983:  932
1984*b:  891
1985:  885
1986:  952
1987:  964
1988:  984
1989:  926
1990:  951
1991:  944
1992:  987
1993*b:  1,004
1994:  1,110
1995:  1,073
1996:  1,116
1997:  1,079
1998:  1,080

Location
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  420
1981:  414
1982:  448
1983:  456
1984*b:  424
1985:  485
1986:  506
1987:  505
1988:  482
1989:  494
1990:  497
1991:  502
1992:  509
1993*b:  483
1994:  519
1995:  503
1996:  544
1997:  564
1998:  538

Location
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  970
1981:  1,001
1982:  978
1983:  985
1984*b:  999
1985:  1,020
1986:  1,070
1987:  1,098
1988:  1,115
1989:  1,080
1990:  1,147
1991:  1,152
1992:  1,088
1993*b:  1,156
1994:  1,096
1995:  1,204
1996:  1,140
1997:  1,098
1998:  1,280

Location
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  172
1981:  177
1982:  170
1983:  178
1984*b:  180
1985:  167
1986:  168
1987:  164
1988:  168
1989:  178
1990:  183
1991:  178
1992:  178
1993*b:  184
1994:  185
1995:  182
1996:  191
1997:  200
1998:  196

Location
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  308
1981:  317
1982:  318
1983:  307
1984*b:  316
1985:  328
1986:  321
1987:  339
1988:  341
1989:  343
1990:  336
1991:  347
1992:  346
1993*b:  333
1994:  339
1995:  345
1996:  366
1997:  351
1998:  388

Location
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  202
1981:  213
1982:  224
1983:  220
1984*b:  210
1985:  225
1986:  235
1987:  247
1988:  280
1989:  287
1990:  286
1991:  292
1992:  315
1993*b:  370
1994:  386
1995:  389
1996:  409
1997:  399
1998:  444

Location
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  200
1981:  196
1982:  197
1983:  207
1984*b:  204
1985:  224
1986:  231
1987:  247
1988:  252
1989:  252
1990:  283
1991:  280
1992:  286
1993*b:  277
1994:  266
1995:  263
1996:  280
1997:  272
1998:  298

Location
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  1,536
1981:  1,502
1982:  1,520
1983:  1,601
1984*b:  1,650
1985:  1,642
1986:  1,665
1987:  1,742
1988:  1,773
1989:  1,825
1990:  1,821
1991:  1,846
1992:  1,877
1993*b:  1,868
1994:  1,871
1995:  1,850
1996:  1,871
1997:  1,885
1998:  1,855

Location
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  238
1981:  225
1982:  247
1983:  255
1984*b:  286
1985:  299
1986:  303
1987:  289
1988:  285
1989:  316
1990:  322
1991:  320
1992:  313
1993*b:  328
1994:  339
1995:  350
1996:  363
1997:  358
1998:  370

Location
New York
Employment Year
1980:  3,450
1981:  3,535
1982:  3,505
1983:  3,467
1984*b:  3,614
1985:  3,692
1986:  3,795
1987:  3,725
1988:  3,808
1989:  3,947
1990:  3,917
1991:  3,880
1992:  3,802
1993*b:  3,950
1994:  3,908
1995:  4,074
1996:  4,028
1997:  3,986
1998:  3,937

Location
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  1,218
1981:  1,177
1982:  1,223
1983:  1,244
1984*b:  1,264
1985:  1,282
1986:  1,314
1987:  1,363
1988:  1,423
1989:  1,441
1990:  1,448
1991:  1,447
1992:  1,431
1993*b:  1,452
1994:  1,511
1995:  1,595
1996:  1,668
1997:  1,661
1998:  1,669

Location
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  128
1981:  131
1982:  132
1983:  138
1984*b:  145
1985:  138
1986:  130
1987:  139
1988:  139
1989:  135
1990:  128
1991:  133
1992:  129
1993*b:  131
1994:  130
1995:  138
1996:  136
1997:  132
1998:  134

Location
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  2,103
1981:  2,235
1982:  2,264
1983:  2,195
1984*b:  2,186
1985:  2,250
1986:  2,252
1987:  2,345
1988:  2,292
1989:  2,272
1990:  2,342
1991:  2,390
1992:  2,475
1993*b:  2,444
1994:  2,343
1995:  2,480
1996:  2,488
1997:  2,477
1998:  2,498

Location
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  570
1981:  583
1982:  584
1983:  598
1984*b:  670
1985:  645
1986:  655
1987:  656
1988:  652
1989:  685
1990:  662
1991:  681
1992:  660
1993*b:  694
1994:  669
1995:  648
1996:  660
1997:  713
1998:  699

Location
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  569
1981:  555
1982:  553
1983:  577
1984*b:  586
1985:  591
1986:  607
1987:  597
1988:  599
1989:  622
1990:  644
1991:  644
1992:  699
1993*b:  730
1994:  768
1995:  722
1996:  727
1997:  813
1998:  802

Location
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  2,403
1981:  2,443
1982:  2,437
1983:  2,372
1984*b:  2,282
1985:  2,451
1986:  2,480
1987:  2,566
1988:  2,611
1989:  2,698
1990:  2,535
1991:  2,567
1992:  2,580
1993*b:  2,644
1994:  2,624
1995:  2,598
1996:  2,617
1997:  2,693
1998:  2,662

Location
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  172
1981:  172
1982:  179
1983:  195
1984*b:  188
1985:  196
1986:  223
1987:  223
1988:  216
1989:  215
1990:  220
1991:  230
1992:  224
1993*b:  222
1994:  208
1995:  211
1996:  208
1997:  207
1998:  232

Location
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  622
1981:  620
1982:  612
1983:  600
1984*b:  685
1985:  659
1986:  656
1987:  698
1988:  762
1989:  716
1990:  739
1991:  779
1992:  751
1993*b:  778
1994:  786
1995:  797
1996:  838
1997:  857
1998:  848

Location
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  127
1981:  128
1982:  133
1983:  145
1984*b:  141
1985:  140
1986:  138
1987:  147
1988:  153
1989:  149
1990:  149
1991:  145
1992:  157
1993*b:  156
1994:  161
1995:  159
1996:  152
1997:  144
1998:  152

Location
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  932
1981:  864
1982:  897
1983:  942
1984*b:  947
1985:  928
1986:  936
1987:  1,056
1988:  1,039
1989:  1,027
1990:  1,047
1991:  952
1992:  990
1993*b:  1,089
1994:  1,022
1995:  1,163
1996:  1,103
1997:  1,241
1998:  1,216

Location
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  2,847
1981:  3,064
1982:  3,110
1983:  3,247
1984*b:  3,357
1985:  3,426
1986:  3,590
1987:  3,398
1988:  3,512
1989:  3,589
1990:  3,797
1991:  3,740
1992:  3,941
1993*b:  4,017
1994:  4,152
1995:  4,205
1996:  4,350
1997:  4,394
1998:  4,463

Location
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  
261
1981:  
264
1982:  
280
1983:  
276
1984*b:  
296
1985:  
306
1986:  
322
1987:  
320
1988:  
320
1989:  
310
1990:  
321
1991:  
314
1992:  
344
1993*b:  
396
1994:  
397
1995:  
403
1996:  
394
1997:  
409
1998:  
430

Location
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  108
1981:  114
1982:  110
1983:  111
1984*b:  118
1985:  117
1986:  114
1987:  118
1988:  122
1989:  127
1990:  118
1991:  128
1992:  144
1993*b:  141
1994:  135
1995:  141
1996:  142
1997:  135
1998:  150

Location
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  1,052
1981:  1,041
1982:  1,151
1983:  1,154
1984*b:  1,195
1985:  1,225
1986:  1,244
1987:  1,276
1988:  1,273
1989:  1,325
1990:  1,389
1991:  1,474
1992:  1,525
1993*b:  1,456
1994:  1,562
1995:  1,382
1996:  1,507
1997:  1,547
1998:  1,531

Location
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  810
1981:  845
1982:  917
1983:  904
1984*b:  936
1985:  993
1986:  918
1987:  1,005
1988:  1,102
1989:  1,143
1990:  1,076
1991:  1,114
1992:  1,140
1993*b:  1,210
1994:  1,219
1995:  1,304
1996:  1,394
1997:  1,449
1998:  1,372

Location
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  355
1981:  335
1982:  359
1983:  369
1984*b:  377
1985:  360
1986:  369
1987:  357
1988:  372
1989:  371
1990:  378
1991:  372
1992:  363
1993*b:  353
1994:  366
1995:  357
1996:  354
1997:  371
1998:  352

Location
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  961
1981:  980
1982:  997
1983:  972
1984*b:  968
1985:  1,099
1986:  1,063
1987:  1,086
1988:  1,118
1989:  1,070
1990:  1,074
1991:  1,126
1992:  1,076
1993*b:  1,148
1994:  1,168
1995:  1,233
1996:  1,232
1997:  1,236
1998:  1,224

Location
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  105
1981:  116
1982:  116
1983:  115
1984*b:  109
1985:  108
1986:  104
1987:  103
1988:  101
1989:  103
1990:  106
1991:  104
1992:  104
1993*b:  103
1994:  112
1995:  110
1996:  99
1997:  105
1998:  111

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 3b.  Estimated Population of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men 
with a Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State 
and the District of Columbia, 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)a

Location
United States
Employment Year
1980:  4,006
1981:  4,102
1982:  3,988
1983:  4,166
1984*b:  4,372
1985:  4,502
1986:  4,543
1987:  4,361
1988:  4,393
1989:  4,594
1990:  4,575
1991:  4,865
1992:  5,137
1993*b:  5,470
1994:  5,352
1995:  5,243
1996:  5,352
1997:  5,110
1998:  5,252

Location
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  79
1981:  81
1982:  71
1983:  92
1984*b:  48
1985:  65
1986:  79
1987:  65
1988:  77
1989:  106
1990:  97
1991:  123
1992:  91
1993*b:  139
1994:  92
1995:  121
1996:  125
1997:  99
1998:  87

Location
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  6
1981:  6
1982:  7
1983:  6
1984*b:  7
1985:  6
1986:  9
1987:  6
1988:  10
1989:  6
1990:  8
1991:  8
1992:  7
1993*b:  11
1994:  13
1995:  13
1996:  14
1997:  14
1998:  10

Location
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  50
1981:  57
1982:  66
1983:  40
1984*b:  40
1985:  66
1986:  79
1987:  80
1988:  53
1989:  75
1990:  56
1991:  54
1992:  91
1993*b:  79
1994:  72
1995:  67
1996:  100
1997:  60
1998:  64

Location
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  63
1981:  63
1982:  51
1983:  48
1984*b:  67
1985:  76
1986:  76
1987:  65
1988:  51
1989:  48
1990:  57
1991:  58
1992:  52
1993*b:  76
1994:  49
1995:  83
1996:  83
1997:  82
1998:  63

Location
California
Employment Year
1980:  393
1981:  486
1982:  426
1983:  401
1984*b:  467
1985:  494
1986:  478
1987:  489
1988:  455
1989:  520
1990:  524
1991:  512
1992:  637
1993*b:  603
1994:  601
1995:  610
1996:  608
1997:  569
1998:  592

Location
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  29
1981:  39
1982:  59
1983:  62
1984*b:  54
1985:  39
1986:  74
1987:  54
1988:  58
1989:  74
1990:  50
1991:  68
1992:  86
1993*b:  48
1994:  62
1995:  71
1996:  66
1997:  61
1998:  75

Location
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  41
1981:  36
1982:  37
1983:  38
1984*b:  52
1985:  41
1986:  27
1987:  40
1988:  37
1989:  28
1990:  32
1991:  51
1992:  42
1993*b:  50
1994:  41
1995:  38
1996:  47
1997:  83
1998:  85

Location
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  11
1981:  14
1982:  9
1983:  10
1984*b:  11
1985:  9
1986:  9
1987:  7
1988:  12
1989:  13
1990:  10
1991:  13
1992:  16
1993*b:  14
1994:  16
1995:  11
1996:  11
1997:  9
1998:  9

Location
DC
Employment Year
1980:  17
1981:  12
1982:  11
1983:  16
1984*b:  17
1985:  12
1986:  12
1987:  11
1988:  10
1989:  12
1990:  22
1991:  11
1992:  12
1993*b:  14
1994:  13
1995:  16
1996:  13
1997:  9
1998:  13

Location
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  158
1981:  186
1982:  202
1983:  192
1984*b:  218
1985:  211
1986:  208
1987:  232
1988:  264
1989:  246
1990:  244
1991:  286
1992:  255
1993*b:  327
1994:  317
1995:  280
1996:  337
1997:  308
1998:  351

Location
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  141
1981:  113
1982:  103
1983:  97
1984*b:  134
1985:  172
1986:  148
1987:  108
1988:  115
1989:  124
1990:  130
1991:  134
1992:  154
1993*b:  159
1994:  173
1995:  183
1996:  161
1997:  153
1998:  187

Location
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  17
1981:  19
1982:  16
1983:  16
1984*b:  21
1985:  19
1986:  22
1987:  11
1988:  11
1989:  17
1990:  10
1991:  20
1992:  21
1993*b:  23
1994:  21
1995:  13
1996:  19
1997:  20
1998:  15

Location
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  16
1981:  11
1982:  19
1983:  22
1984*b:  25
1985:  23
1986:  21
1987:  21
1988:  10
1989:  22
1990:  19
1991:  22
1992:  19
1993*b:  16
1994:  25
1995:  27
1996:  21
1997:  29
1998:  15

Location
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  177
1981:  164
1982:  139
1983:  173
1984*b:  159
1985:  151
1986:  184
1987:  196
1988:  161
1989:  189
1990:  199
1991:  199
1992:  231
1993*b:  224
1994:  199
1995:  175
1996:  219
1997:  179
1998:  226

Location
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  62
1981:  99
1982:  98
1983:  83
1984*b:  63
1985:  84
1986:  114
1987:  109
1988:  79
1989:  75
1990:  91
1991:  96
1992:  63
1993*b:  72
1994:  102
1995:  88
1996:  104
1997:  75
1998:  128

Location
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  31
1981:  36
1982:  36
1983:  43
1984*b:  37
1985:  46
1986:  47
1987:  41
1988:  31
1989:  42
1990:  41
1991:  46
1992:  58
1993*b:  61
1994:  64
1995:  39
1996:  37
1997:  35
1998:  42

Location
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  26
1981:  22
1982:  24
1983:  31
1984*b:  29
1985:  35
1986:  37
1987:  27
1988:  27
1989:  30
1990:  23
1991:  33
1992:  43
1993*b:  44
1994:  40
1995:  64
1996:  53
1997:  41
1998:  39

Location
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  80
1981:  97
1982:  72
1983:  98
1984*b:  83
1985:  84
1986:  83
1987:  90
1988:  90
1989:  103
1990:  121
1991:  117
1992:  140
1993*b:  149
1994:  123
1995:  133
1996:  92
1997:  97
1998:  123

Location
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  102
1981:  94
1982:  99
1983:  89
1984*b:  70
1985:  109
1986:  103
1987:  103
1988:  119
1989:  114
1990:  91
1991:  59
1992:  87
1993*b:  166
1994:  123
1995:  125
1996:  119
1997:  102
1998:  105

Location
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  23
1981:  24
1982:  22
1983:  25
1984*b:  27
1985:  25
1986:  27
1987:  25
1988:  28
1989:  27
1990:  27
1991:  34
1992:  43
1993*b:  31
1994:  41
1995:  30
1996:  31
1997:  39
1998:  34

Location
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  56
1981:  61
1982:  61
1983:  69
1984*b:  90
1985:  59
1986:  69
1987:  57
1988:  96
1989:  63
1990:  48
1991:  75
1992:  82
1993*b:  164
1994:  99
1995:  104
1996:  81
1997:  71
1998:  71

Location
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  89
1981:  83
1982:  84
1983:  80
1984*b:  86
1985:  113
1986:  73
1987:  84
1988:  106
1989:  93
1990:  130
1991:  114
1992:  101
1993*b:  116
1994:  131
1995:  149
1996:  141
1997:  160
1998:  101

Location
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  173
1981:  174
1982:  193
1983:  206
1984*b:  234
1985:  225
1986:  192
1987:  190
1988:  177
1989:  222
1990:  198
1991:  201
1992:  202
1993*b:  225
1994:  213
1995:  183
1996:  186
1997:  184
1998:  177

Location
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  57
1981:  58
1982:  68
1983:  84
1984*b:  81
1985:  86
1986:  84
1987:  98
1988:  89
1989:  79
1990:  70
1991:  106
1992:  83
1993*b:  97
1994:  74
1995:  53
1996:  80
1997:  74
1998:  67

Location
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  60
1981:  44
1982:  56
1983:  60
1984*b:  63
1985:  50
1986:  59
1987:  63
1988:  61
1989:  61
1990:  74
1991:  81
1992:  53
1993*b:  53
1994:  49
1995:  59
1996:  61
1997:  57
1998:  64

Location
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  86
1981:  108
1982:  101
1983:  100
1984*b:  87
1985:  94
1986:  93
1987:  96
1988:  111
1989:  106
1990:  100
1991:  95
1992:  105
1993*b:  98
1994:  126
1995:  68
1996:  72
1997:  113
1998:  118

Location
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  12
1981:  8
1982:  18
1983:  19
1984*b:  16
1985:  21
1986:  21
1987:  23
1988:  20
1989:  22
1990:  18
1991:  17
1992:  16
1993*b:  17
1994:  16
1995:  23
1996:  28
1997:  28
1998:  28

Location
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  17
1981:  22
1982:  24
1983:  23
1984*b:  25
1985:  10
1986:  19
1987:  24
1988:  23
1989:  16
1990:  26
1991:  26
1992:  19
1993*b:  16
1994:  26
1995:  24
1996:  29
1997:  28
1998:  18

Location
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  17
1981:  13
1982:  13
1983:  10
1984*b:  14
1985:  17
1986:  17
1987:  22
1988:  20
1989:  14
1990:  13
1991:  21
1992:  23
1993*b:  36
1994:  22
1995:  29
1996:  22
1997:  24
1998:  31

Location
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  9
1981:  22
1982:  17
1983:  16
1984*b:  16
1985:  12
1986:  19
1987:  14
1988:  21
1989:  17
1990:  20
1991:  25
1992:  25
1993*b:  29
1994:  28
1995:  29
1996:  30
1997:  19
1998:  20

Location
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  87
1981:  113
1982:  100
1983:  98
1984*b:  121
1985:  109
1986:  126
1987:  98
1988:  88
1989:  84
1990:  86
1991:  80
1992:  102
1993*b:  126
1994:  117
1995:  102
1996:  142
1997:  99
1998:  117

Location
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  31
1981:  38
1982:  29
1983:  33
1984*b:  30
1985:  23
1986:  30
1987:  33
1988:  31
1989:  34
1990:  33
1991:  29
1992:  43
1993*b:  49
1994:  42
1995:  41
1996:  50
1997:  46
1998:  34

Location
New York
Employment Year
1980:  231
1981:  271
1982:  248
1983:  295
1984*b:  309
1985:  325
1986:  236
1987:  276
1988:  309
1989:  276
1990:  308
1991:  294
1992:  344
1993*b:  373
1994:  348
1995:  327
1996:  371
1997:  311
1998:  375

Location
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  126
1981:  156
1982:  122
1983:  130
1984*b:  132
1985:  152
1986:  126
1987:  121
1988:  112
1989:  122
1990:  130
1991:  139
1992:  128
1993*b:  142
1994:  129
1995:  157
1996:  129
1997:  171
1998:  164

Location
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  9
1981:  10
1982:  10
1983:  9
1984*b:  8
1985:  9
1986:  11
1987:  12
1988:  10
1989:  13
1990:  12
1991:  11
1992:  8
1993*b:  9
1994:  9
1995:  8
1996:  9
1997:  10
1998:  7

Location
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  221
1981:  201
1982:  200
1983:  215
1984*b:  217
1985:  181
1986:  211
1987:  211
1988:  227
1989:  217
1990:  220
1991:  229
1992:  217
1993*b:  218
1994:  208
1995:  259
1996:  245
1997:  216
1998:  239

Location
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  55
1981:  59
1982:  55
1983:  59
1984*b:  40
1985:  55
1986:  69
1987:  47
1988:  78
1989:  73
1990:  81
1991:  90
1992:  69
1993*b:  94
1994:  81
1995:  73
1996:  69
1997:  77
1998:  81

Location
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  63
1981:  59
1982:  62
1983:  55
1984*b:  47
1985:  66
1986:  75
1987:  80
1988:  68
1989:  49
1990:  61
1991:  70
1992:  56
1993*b:  60
1994:  60
1995:  60
1996:  58
1997:  47
1998:  57

Location
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  256
1981:  205
1982:  200
1983:  227
1984*b:  268
1985:  265
1986:  281
1987:  193
1988:  219
1989:  178
1990:  191
1991:  255
1992:  283
1993*b:  210
1994:  257
1995:  258
1996:  296
1997:  275
1998:  231

Location
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  20
1981:  16
1982:  19
1983:  19
1984*b:  15
1985:  17
1986:  16
1987:  17
1988:  19
1989:  16
1990:  19
1991:  21
1992:  23
1993*b:  17
1994:  27
1995:  22
1996:  20
1997:  23
1998:  22

Location
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  65
1981:  39
1982:  60
1983:  66
1984*b:  67
1985:  63
1986:  73
1987:  55
1988:  49
1989:  95
1990:  83
1991:  94
1992:  89
1993*b:  83
1994:  125
1995:  92
1996:  50
1997:  54
1998:  81

Location
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  7
1981:  12
1982:  11
1983:  9
1984*b:  11
1985:  12
1986:  9
1987:  8
1988:  10
1989:  11
1990:  11
1991:  13
1992:  18
1993*b:  12
1994:  10
1995:  12
1996:  12
1997:  11
1998:  11

Location
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  79
1981:  101
1982:  112
1983:  103
1984*b:  116
1985:  133
1986:  119
1987:  105
1988:  113
1989:  115
1990:  111
1991:  131
1992:  165
1993*b:  162
1994:  176
1995:  144
1996:  171
1997:  129
1998:  103

Location
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  260
1981:  216
1982:  206
1983:  272
1984*b:  279
1985:  262
1986:  318
1987:  304
1988:  270
1989:  360
1990:  270
1991:  309
1992:  308
1993*b:  302
1994:  342
1995:  336
1996:  245
1997:  360
1998:  344

Location
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  19
1981:  23
1982:  18
1983:  14
1984*b:  18
1985:  21
1986:  16
1987:  13
1988:  18
1989:  19
1990:  20
1991:  18
1992:  23
1993*b:  34
1994:  27
1995:  25
1996:  26
1997:  32
1998:  26

Location
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  14
1981:  11
1982:  7
1983:  10
1984*b:  9
1985:  9
1986:  9
1987:  11
1988:  9
1989:  8
1990:  12
1991:  13
1992:  15
1993*b:  12
1994:  12
1995:  13
1996:  15
1997:  14
1998:  10

Location
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  108
1981:  81
1982:  98
1983:  82
1984*b:  126
1985:  117
1986:  111
1987:  130
1988:  117
1989:  109
1990:  109
1991:  100
1992:  104
1993*b:  125
1994:  141
1995:  151
1996:  135
1997:  128
1998:  90

Location
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  104
1981:  86
1982:  82
1983:  76
1984*b:  75
1985:  115
1986:  102
1987:  69
1988:  83
1989:  106
1990:  134
1991:  115
1992:  100
1993*b:  101
1994:  106
1995:  118
1996:  125
1997:  97
1998:  108

Location
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  57
1981:  67
1982:  59
1983:  68
1984*b:  56
1985:  55
1986:  56
1987:  51
1988:  51
1989:  55
1990:  49
1991:  55
1992:  67
1993*b:  63
1994:  78
1995:  57
1996:  79
1997:  61
1998:  52

Location
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  87
1981:  79
1982:  81
1983:  67
1984*b:  83
1985:  54
1986:  62
1987:  66
1988:  79
1989:  81
1990:  80
1991:  82
1992:  110
1993*b:  109
1994:  74
1995:  67
1996:  103
1997:  120
1998:  133

Location
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  6
1981:  7
1982:  8
1983:  7
1984*b:  8
1985:  10
1986:  8
1987:  8
1988:  11
1989:  11
1990:  9
1991:  11
1992:  9
1993*b:  10
1994:  9
1995:  9
1996:  13
1997:  8
1998:  10

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 3c.  Estimated Population of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women 
without a Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State 
and the District of Columbia, 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)a

Location
United States
Employment Year
1980:  48,618
1981:  49,506
1982:  50,564
1983:  51,496
1984*b:  52,344
1985:  53,450
1986:  54,438
1987:  55,567
1988:  56,424
1989:  57,137
1990:  57,753
1991:  58,480
1992:  59,205
1993*b:  59,597
1994:  60,157
1995:  60,938
1996:  61,740
1997:  62,486
1998:  63,494

Location
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  806
1981:  822
1982:  833
1983:  840
1984*b:  873
1985:  902
1986:  928
1987:  874
1988:  881
1989:  923
1990:  919
1991:  929
1992:  933
1993*b:  896
1994:  918
1995:  953
1996:  988
1997:  997
1998:  1,013

Location
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  80
1981:  85
1982:  96
1983:  111
1984*b:  123
1985:  122
1986:  119
1987:  117
1988:  115
1989:  121
1990:  124
1991:  125
1992:  125
1993*b:  142
1994:  150
1995:  150
1996:  156
1997:  152
1998:  149

Location
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  583
1981:  570
1982:  574
1983:  570
1984*b:  668
1985:  674
1986:  729
1987:  810
1988:  778
1989:  787
1990:  823
1991:  842
1992:  861
1993*b:  854
1994:  907
1995:  930
1996:  1,014
1997:  1,013
1998:  1,106

Location
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  443
1981:  453
1982:  429
1983:  456
1984*b:  475
1985:  460
1986:  497
1987:  512
1988:  521
1989:  538
1990:  512
1991:  510
1992:  481
1993*b:  521
1994:  543
1995:  520
1996:  535
1997:  535
1998:  538

Location
California
Employment Year
1980:  5,230
1981:  5,420
1982:  5,561
1983:  5,761
1984*b:  5,790
1985:  6,008
1986:  6,215
1987:  6,421
1988:  6,547
1989:  6,698
1990:  6,782
1991:  7,031
1992:  7,144
1993*b:  7,149
1994:  7,275
1995:  7,227
1996:  7,349
1997:  7,565
1998:  7,710

Location
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  669
1981:  658
1982:  694
1983:  748
1984*b:  727
1985:  801
1986:  774
1987:  759
1988:  774
1989:  795
1990:  755
1991:  759
1992:  751
1993*b:  828
1994:  879
1995:  901
1996:  887
1997:  940
1998:  964

Location
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  692
1981:  746
1982:  767
1983:  747
1984*b:  743
1985:  775
1986:  769
1987:  727
1988:  775
1989:  747
1990:  786
1991:  807
1992:  781
1993*b:  791
1994:  776
1995:  805
1996:  837
1997:  789
1998:  807

Location
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  121
1981:  129
1982:  134
1983:  145
1984*b:  138
1985:  143
1986:  144
1987:  146
1988:  154
1989:  161
1990:  168
1991:  173
1992:  175
1993*b:  167
1994:  169
1995:  175
1996:  179
1997:  173
1998:  182

Location
DC
Employment Year
1980:  148
1981:  157
1982:  144
1983:  132
1984*b:  142
1985:  144
1986:  160
1987:  143
1988:  146
1989:  140
1990:  139
1991:  140
1992:  132
1993*b:  142
1994:  153
1995:  146
1996:  131
1997:  126
1998:  127

Location
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  2,188
1981:  2,143
1982:  2,205
1983:  2,270
1984*b:  2,375
1985:  2,475
1986:  2,580
1987:  2,792
1988:  2,786
1989:  2,879
1990:  2,976
1991:  2,998
1992:  3,155
1993*b:  3,208
1994:  3,190
1995:  3,243
1996:  3,242
1997:  3,283
1998:  3,254

Location
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  1,135
1981:  1,161
1982:  1,187
1983:  1,257
1984*b:  1,291
1985:  1,363
1986:  1,425
1987:  1,385
1988:  1,472
1989:  1,438
1990:  1,571
1991:  1,563
1992:  1,568
1993*b:  1,687
1994:  1,720
1995:  1,741
1996:  1,719
1997:  1,823
1998:  1,946

Location
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  217
1981:  219
1982:  222
1983:  227
1984*b:  239
1985:  252
1986:  246
1987:  258
1988:  255
1989:  265
1990:  266
1991:  273
1992:  274
1993*b:  289
1994:  266
1995:  270
1996:  274
1997:  271
1998:  264

Location
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  178
1981:  187
1982:  195
1983:  201
1984*b:  212
1985:  195
1986:  207
1987:  201
1988:  205
1989:  217
1990:  218
1991:  225
1992:  225
1993*b:  254
1994:  251
1995:  244
1996:  266
1997:  264
1998:  262

Location
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  2,476
1981:  2,512
1982:  2,495
1983:  2,478
1984*b:  2,551
1985:  2,693
1986:  2,660
1987:  2,645
1988:  2,590
1989:  2,624
1990:  2,738
1991:  2,843
1992:  2,804
1993*b:  2,786
1994:  2,804
1995:  2,850
1996:  2,845
1997:  2,778
1998:  2,837

Location
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  1,149
1981:  1,147
1982:  1,163
1983:  1,158
1984*b:  1,160
1985:  1,189
1986:  1,256
1987:  1,258
1988:  1,316
1989:  1,269
1990:  1,291
1991:  1,344
1992:  1,350
1993*b:  1,347
1994:  1,323
1995:  1,277
1996:  1,304
1997:  1,319
1998:  1,401

Location
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  603
1981:  586
1982:  569
1983:  622
1984*b:  630
1985:  604
1986:  614
1987:  634
1988:  641
1989:  640
1990:  611
1991:  631
1992:  655
1993*b:  612
1994:  606
1995:  657
1996:  676
1997:  650
1998:  621

Location
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  461
1981:  465
1982:  488
1983:  506
1984*b:  518
1985:  508
1986:  508
1987:  562
1988:  566
1989:  559
1990:  568
1991:  598
1992:  578
1993*b:  562
1994:  526
1995:  529
1996:  536
1997:  535
1998:  572

Location
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  748
1981:  780
1982:  814
1983:  867
1984*b:  823
1985:  779
1986:  812
1987:  862
1988:  785
1989:  848
1990:  823
1991:  817
1992:  851
1993*b:  843
1994:  835
1995:  864
1996:  907
1997:  908
1998:  906

Location
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  880
1981:  855
1982:  901
1983:  952
1984*b:  879
1985:  905
1986:  922
1987:  968
1988:  1,002
1989:  959
1990:  968
1991:  923
1992:  1,005
1993*b:  965
1994:  971
1995:  972
1996:  958
1997:  1,025
1998:  1,002

Location
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  231
1981:  248
1982:  254
1983:  271
1984*b:  272
1985:  243
1986:  249
1987:  260
1988:  275
1989:  297
1990:  304
1991:  295
1992:  294
1993*b:  282
1994:  276
1995:  298
1996:  284
1997:  305
1998:  312

Location
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  951
1981:  1,031
1982:  992
1983:  990
1984*b:  1,040
1985:  1,090
1986:  1,112
1987:  1,136
1988:  1,117
1989:  1,164
1990:  1,176
1991:  1,241
1992:  1,254
1993*b:  1,176
1994:  1,226
1995:  1,246
1996:  1,268
1997:  1,321
1998:  1,295

Location
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  1,255
1981:  1,283
1982:  1,274
1983:  1,293
1984*b:  1,335
1985:  1,383
1986:  1,404
1987:  1,425
1988:  1,417
1989:  1,409
1990:  1,423
1991:  1,392
1992:  1,425
1993*b:  1,449
1994:  1,458
1995:  1,489
1996:  1,499
1997:  1,451
1998:  1,499

Location
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  1,919
1981:  1,960
1982:  2,007
1983:  1,934
1984*b:  1,988
1985:  1,975
1986:  1,992
1987:  2,009
1988:  2,044
1989:  2,090
1990:  2,089
1991:  2,099
1992:  2,117
1993*b:  2,147
1994:  2,165
1995:  2,204
1996:  2,171
1997:  2,158
1998:  2,177

Location
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  798
1981:  856
1982:  880
1983:  927
1984*b:  910
1985:  925
1986:  923
1987:  974
1988:  1,010
1989:  979
1990:  1,049
1991:  1,006
1992:  1,034
1993*b:  1,023
1994:  1,043
1995:  1,087
1996:  1,129
1997:  1,157
1998:  1,124

Location
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  485
1981:  481
1982:  502
1983:  504
1984*b:  486
1985:  509
1986:  522
1987:  520
1988:  517
1989:  560
1990:  535
1991:  536
1992:  554
1993*b:  570
1994:  577
1995:  649
1996:  637
1997:  618
1998:  625

Location
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  1,033
1981:  1,026
1982:  1,066
1983:  1,090
1984*b:  1,115
1985:  1,091
1986:  1,093
1987:  1,119
1988:  1,180
1989:  1,197
1990:  1,212
1991:  1,218
1992:  1,183
1993*b:  1,198
1994:  1,082
1995:  1,233
1996:  1,168
1997:  1,212
1998:  1,267

Location
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  165
1981:  171
1982:  164
1983:  162
1984*b:  183
1985:  183
1986:  185
1987:  180
1988:  180
1989:  188
1990:  186
1991:  189
1992:  182
1993*b:  187
1994:  183
1995:  181
1996:  198
1997:  200
1998:  202

Location
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  313
1981:  334
1982:  327
1983:  324
1984*b:  357
1985:  345
1986:  355
1987:  359
1988:  352
1989:  379
1990:  373
1991:  378
1992:  387
1993*b:  365
1994:  385
1995:  356
1996:  363
1997:  362
1998:  362

Location
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  191
1981:  210
1982:  206
1983:  203
1984*b:  217
1985:  242
1986:  258
1987:  243
1988:  274
1989:  286
1990:  279
1991:  285
1992:  301
1993*b:  326
1994:  350
1995:  353
1996:  392
1997:  424
1998:  438

Location
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  205
1981:  208
1982:  213
1983:  223
1984*b:  226
1985:  237
1986:  236
1987:  252
1988:  274
1989:  267
1990:  274
1991:  295
1992:  279
1993*b:  258
1994:  267
1995:  273
1996:  273
1997:  270
1998:  282

Location
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  1,683
1981:  1,605
1982:  1,653
1983:  1,783
1984*b:  1,772
1985:  1,779
1986:  1,844
1987:  1,838
1988:  1,860
1989:  1,895
1990:  1,907
1991:  1,875
1992:  1,873
1993*b:  1,929
1994:  1,919
1995:  1,909
1996:  1,916
1997:  2,002
1998:  2,046

Location
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  284
1981:  268
1982:  297
1983:  289
1984*b:  310
1985:  308
1986:  313
1987:  327
1988:  334
1989:  348
1990:  343
1991:  349
1992:  351
1993*b:  353
1994:  376
1995:  383
1996:  388
1997:  412
1998:  392

Location
New York
Employment Year
1980:  3,826
1981:  3,836
1982:  4,015
1983:  4,056
1984*b:  4,133
1985:  4,212
1986:  4,235
1987:  4,230
1988:  4,223
1989:  4,236
1990:  4,260
1991:  4,369
1992:  4,354
1993*b:  4,430
1994:  4,348
1995:  4,369
1996:  4,361
1997:  4,174
1998:  4,317

Location
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  1,320
1981:  1,349
1982:  1,352
1983:  1,349
1984*b:  1,357
1985:  1,417
1986:  1,474
1987:  1,458
1988:  1,515
1989:  1,463
1990:  1,518
1991:  1,581
1992:  1,607
1993*b:  1,602
1994:  1,636
1995:  1,672
1996:  1,699
1997:  1,740
1998:  1,762

Location
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  127
1981:  126
1982:  137
1983:  141
1984*b:  138
1985:  145
1986:  137
1987:  137
1988:  141
1989:  138
1990:  142
1991:  141
1992:  137
1993*b:  130
1994:  138
1995:  139
1996:  134
1997:  134
1998:  139

Location
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  2,286
1981:  2,334
1982:  2,459
1983:  2,372
1984*b:  2,390
1985:  2,412
1986:  2,493
1987:  2,496
1988:  2,508
1989:  2,474
1990:  2,553
1991:  2,557
1992:  2,580
1993*b:  2,526
1994:  2,553
1995:  2,528
1996:  2,550
1997:  2,657
1998:  2,609

Location
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  593
1981:  625
1982:  630
1983:  675
1984*b:  700
1985:  728
1986:  716
1987:  731
1988:  719
1989:  726
1990:  724
1991:  702
1992:  726
1993*b:  739
1994:  757
1995:  726
1996:  746
1997:  721
1998:  735

Location
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  579
1981:  608
1982:  608
1983:  595
1984*b:  624
1985:  633
1986:  634
1987:  563
1988:  617
1989:  675
1990:  628
1991:  693
1992:  709
1993*b:  715
1994:  713
1995:  722
1996:  712
1997:  787
1998:  832

Location
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  2,517
1981:  2,527
1982:  2,622
1983:  2,608
1984*b:  2,615
1985:  2,607
1986:  2,659
1987:  2,695
1988:  2,894
1989:  2,830
1990:  2,797
1991:  2,752
1992:  2,741
1993*b:  2,681
1994:  2,699
1995:  2,782
1996:  2,822
1997:  2,813
1998:  2,817

Location
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  203
1981:  210
1982:  194
1983:  208
1984*b:  210
1985:  219
1986:  224
1987:  232
1988:  223
1989:  220
1990:  217
1991:  233
1992:  220
1993*b:  229
1994:  221
1995:  194
1996:  226
1997:  223
1998:  222

Location
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  647
1981:  707
1982:  737
1983:  755
1984*b:  756
1985:  728
1986:  710
1987:  813
1988:  797
1989:  822
1990:  810
1991:  830
1992:  843
1993*b:  850
1994:  843
1995:  866
1996:  867
1997:  875
1998:  931

Location
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  134
1981:  140
1982:  134
1983:  133
1984*b:  143
1985:  137
1986:  147
1987:  152
1988:  154
1989:  147
1990:  144
1991:  140
1992:  144
1993*b:  149
1994:  150
1995:  149
1996:  151
1997:  137
1998:  147

Location
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  1,011
1981:  979
1982:  934
1983:  954
1984*b:  1,007
1985:  1,010
1986:  988
1987:  1,097
1988:  1,094
1989:  1,107
1990:  1,109
1991:  1,128
1992:  1,158
1993*b:  1,218
1994:  1,289
1995:  1,280
1996:  1,244
1997:  1,274
1998:  1,347

Location
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  3,073
1981:  3,156
1982:  3,273
1983:  3,412
1984*b:  3,480
1985:  3,602
1986:  3,628
1987:  3,686
1988:  3,715
1989:  3,968
1990:  3,904
1991:  3,902
1992:  4,025
1993*b:  4,084
1994:  4,254
1995:  4,321
1996:  4,556
1997:  4,597
1998:  4,686

Location
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  280
1981:  283
1982:  283
1983:  292
1984*b:  303
1985:  313
1986:  327
1987:  331
1988:  338
1989:  326
1990:  335
1991:  342
1992:  354
1993*b:  384
1994:  356
1995:  380
1996:  413
1997:  430
1998:  428

Location
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  113
1981:  116
1982:  106
1983:  109
1984*b:  116
1985:  124
1986:  123
1987:  126
1988:  131
1989:  138
1990:  140
1991:  136
1992:  142
1993*b:  138
1994:  147
1995:  149
1996:  137
1997:  135
1998:  147

Location
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  1,214
1981:  1,258
1982:  1,254
1983:  1,290
1984*b:  1,329
1985:  1,314
1986:  1,345
1987:  1,423
1988:  1,482
1989:  1,490
1990:  1,500
1991:  1,475
1992:  1,568
1993*b:  1,584
1994:  1,620
1995:  1,557
1996:  1,571
1997:  1,585
1998:  1,567

Location
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  879
1981:  936
1982:  992
1983:  965
1984*b:  977
1985:  1,004
1986:  959
1987:  1,051
1988:  1,131
1989:  1,151
1990:  1,174
1991:  1,184
1992:  1,222
1993*b:  1,186
1994:  1,151
1995:  1,222
1996:  1,304
1997:  1,453
1998:  1,436

Location
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  397
1981:  417
1982:  406
1983:  410
1984*b:  431
1985:  421
1986:  428
1987:  437
1988:  411
1989:  396
1990:  407
1991:  401
1992:  371
1993*b:  390
1994:  406
1995:  405
1996:  381
1997:  390
1998:  387

Location
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  1,002
1981:  1,021
1982:  1,014
1983:  1,021
1984*b:  965
1985:  1,017
1986:  1,053
1987:  1,094
1988:  1,086
1989:  1,060
1990:  1,097
1991:  1,125
1992:  1,116
1993*b:  1,150
1994:  1,194
1995:  1,248
1996:  1,265
1997:  1,211
1998:  1,191

Location
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  96
1981:  104
1982:  107
1983:  111
1984*b:  104
1985:  103
1986:  104
1987:  99
1988:  101
1989:  105
1990:  108
1991:  100
1992:  103
1993*b:  108
1994:  117
1995:  110
1996:  114
1997:  111
1998:  111

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 3d.  Estimated Population of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women 
with a Disability Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State 
and the District of Columbia, 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)a

Location
United States
Employment Year
1980:  4,024
1981:  4,097
1982:  3,910
1983:  4,000
1984*b:  4,217
1985:  4,174
1986:  4,216
1987:  4,009
1988:  4,146
1989:  4,284
1990:  4,495
1991:  4,557
1992:  4,590
1993*b:  5,151
1994:  5,348
1995:  5,568
1996:  5,625
1997:  5,657
1998:  5,423

Location
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  88
1981:  72
1982:  60
1983:  65
1984*b:  84
1985:  106
1986:  87
1987:  82
1988:  72
1989:  88
1990:  108
1991:  90
1992:  73
1993*b:  122
1994:  100
1995:  96
1996:  102
1997:  134
1998:  124

Location
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  6
1981:  5
1982:  5
1983:  5
1984*b:  5
1985:  6
1986:  9
1987:  7
1988:  4
1989:  6
1990:  6
1991:  9
1992:  7
1993*b:  11
1994:  8
1995:  8
1996:  10
1997:  14
1998:  12

Location
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  48
1981:  45
1982:  51
1983:  70
1984*b:  59
1985:  67
1986:  72
1987:  40
1988:  48
1989:  51
1990:  47
1991:  60
1992:  63
1993*b:  83
1994:  71
1995:  79
1996:  111
1997:  95
1998:  68

Location
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  66
1981:  59
1982:  62
1983:  59
1984*b:  52
1985:  54
1986:  56
1987:  59
1988:  61
1989:  47
1990:  46
1991:  58
1992:  66
1993*b:  60
1994:  60
1995:  77
1996:  65
1997:  67
1998:  67

Location
California
Employment Year
1980:  421
1981:  490
1982:  477
1983:  442
1984*b:  476
1985:  487
1986:  508
1987:  470
1988:  476
1989:  481
1990:  521
1991:  488
1992:  595
1993*b:  567
1994:  615
1995:  590
1996:  605
1997:  636
1998:  594

Location
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  36
1981:  40
1982:  42
1983:  34
1984*b:  58
1985:  36
1986:  60
1987:  68
1988:  56
1989:  53
1990:  51
1991:  81
1992:  55
1993*b:  50
1994:  60
1995:  88
1996:  65
1997:  78
1998:  88

Location
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  46
1981:  36
1982:  48
1983:  45
1984*b:  51
1985:  48
1986:  38
1987:  47
1988:  62
1989:  30
1990:  43
1991:  48
1992:  61
1993*b:  70
1994:  34
1995:  38
1996:  47
1997:  49
1998:  71

Location
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  12
1981:  14
1982:  10
1983:  5
1984*b:  10
1985:  11
1986:  10
1987:  9
1988:  11
1989:  11
1990:  8
1991:  9
1992:  11
1993*b:  9
1994:  12
1995:  16
1996:  14
1997:  12
1998:  12

Location
DC
Employment Year
1980:  13
1981:  14
1982:  16
1983:  15
1984*b:  13
1985:  12
1986:  13
1987:  15
1988:  12
1989:  12
1990:  9
1991:  11
1992:  10
1993*b:  12
1994:  15
1995:  13
1996:  17
1997:  9
1998:  10

Location
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  181
1981:  208
1982:  225
1983:  238
1984*b:  211
1985:  215
1986:  198
1987:  198
1988:  189
1989:  187
1990:  196
1991:  244
1992:  221
1993*b:  228
1994:  300
1995:  327
1996:  304
1997:  279
1998:  246

Location
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  128
1981:  97
1982:  103
1983:  113
1984*b:  138
1985:  124
1986:  146
1987:  156
1988:  162
1989:  153
1990:  128
1991:  158
1992:  146
1993*b:  155
1994:  185
1995:  194
1996:  150
1997:  143
1998:  170

Location
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  17
1981:  12
1982:  14
1983:  16
1984*b:  13
1985:  14
1986:  15
1987:  10
1988:  9
1989:  16
1990:  14
1991:  14
1992:  19
1993*b:  15
1994:  15
1995:  12
1996:  15
1997:  17
1998:  11

Location
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  16
1981:  19
1982:  16
1983:  17
1984*b:  15
1985:  19
1986:  15
1987:  16
1988:  22
1989:  17
1990:  19
1991:  20
1992:  16
1993*b:  13
1994:  21
1995:  24
1996:  24
1997:  25
1998:  20

Location
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  167
1981:  171
1982:  165
1983:  166
1984*b:  201
1985:  168
1986:  163
1987:  159
1988:  176
1989:  191
1990:  198
1991:  141
1992:  214
1993*b:  233
1994:  241
1995:  233
1996:  222
1997:  251
1998:  196

Location
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  89
1981:  94
1982:  82
1983:  95
1984*b:  105
1985:  105
1986:  110
1987:  80
1988:  83
1989:  74
1990:  75
1991:  92
1992:  100
1993*b:  110
1994:  161
1995:  120
1996:  104
1997:  131
1998:  92

Location
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  60
1981:  46
1982:  30
1983:  23
1984*b:  39
1985:  43
1986:  50
1987:  37
1988:  32
1989:  47
1990:  42
1991:  35
1992:  43
1993*b:  35
1994:  34
1995:  47
1996:  51
1997:  51
1998:  35

Location
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  44
1981:  29
1982:  30
1983:  29
1984*b:  23
1985:  33
1986:  23
1987:  31
1988:  27
1989:  43
1990:  37
1991:  28
1992:  28
1993*b:  46
1994:  39
1995:  32
1996:  39
1997:  57
1998:  50

Location
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  57
1981:  79
1982:  79
1983:  47
1984*b:  55
1985:  73
1986:  85
1987:  89
1988:  82
1989:  72
1990:  124
1991:  107
1992:  85
1993*b:  89
1994:  148
1995:  140
1996:  111
1997:  128
1998:  115

Location
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  71
1981:  110
1982:  77
1983:  75
1984*b:  95
1985:  103
1986:  104
1987:  103
1988:  98
1989:  96
1990:  81
1991:  94
1992:  106
1993*b:  126
1994:  81
1995:  105
1996:  92
1997:  75
1998:  98

Location
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  19
1981:  14
1982:  19
1983:  22
1984*b:  20
1985:  28
1986:  26
1987:  31
1988:  27
1989:  21
1990:  18
1991:  21
1992:  29
1993*b:  31
1994:  41
1995:  29
1996:  29
1997:  36
1998:  31

Location
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  68
1981:  66
1982:  71
1983:  57
1984*b:  70
1985:  73
1986:  61
1987:  57
1988:  76
1989:  77
1990:  97
1991:  81
1992:  55
1993*b:  78
1994:  75
1995:  71
1996:  81
1997:  73
1998:  89

Location
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  88
1981:  97
1982:  60
1983:  87
1984*b:  86
1985:  88
1986:  78
1987:  91
1988:  84
1989:  117
1990:  115
1991:  106
1992:  106
1993*b:  99
1994:  118
1995:  147
1996:  128
1997:  122
1998:  113

Location
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  170
1981:  192
1982:  167
1983:  223
1984*b:  216
1985:  197
1986:  217
1987:  173
1988:  211
1989:  209
1990:  206
1991:  204
1992:  200
1993*b:  210
1994:  205
1995:  223
1996:  238
1997:  230
1998:  205

Location
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  60
1981:  52
1982:  59
1983:  56
1984*b:  66
1985:  63
1986:  76
1987:  64
1988:  36
1989:  58
1990:  79
1991:  81
1992:  79
1993*b:  90
1994:  67
1995:  64
1996:  81
1997:  74
1998:  69

Location
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  65
1981:  61
1982:  53
1983:  57
1984*b:  61
1985:  52
1986:  54
1987:  52
1988:  64
1989:  63
1990:  73
1991:  61
1992:  62
1993*b:  62
1994:  66
1995:  71
1996:  75
1997:  77
1998:  53

Location
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  84
1981:  70
1982:  65
1983:  76
1984*b:  96
1985:  89
1986:  89
1987:  86
1988:  84
1989:  75
1990:  113
1991:  87
1992:  108
1993*b:  99
1994:  126
1995:  99
1996:  152
1997:  113
1998:  98

Location
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  12
1981:  11
1982:  14
1983:  17
1984*b:  13
1985:  18
1986:  13
1987:  16
1988:  16
1989:  12
1990:  15
1991:  19
1992:  15
1993*b:  18
1994:  17
1995:  16
1996:  15
1997:  15
1998:  17

Location
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  27
1981:  20
1982:  16
1983:  19
1984*b:  17
1985:  17
1986:  20
1987:  17
1988:  15
1989:  20
1990:  23
1991:  18
1992:  19
1993*b:  25
1994:  15
1995:  27
1996:  26
1997:  29
1998:  31

Location
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  14
1981:  9
1982:  13
1983:  14
1984*b:  15
1985:  16
1986:  11
1987:  22
1988:  18
1989:  14
1990:  22
1991:  27
1992:  20
1993*b:  27
1994:  34
1995:  27
1996:  29
1997:  31
1998:  28

Location
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  12
1981:  17
1982:  17
1983:  17
1984*b:  13
1985:  13
1986:  17
1987:  12
1988:  16
1989:  16
1990:  17
1991:  17
1992:  21
1993*b:  19
1994:  13
1995:  16
1996:  33
1997:  28
1998:  28

Location
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  110
1981:  141
1982:  129
1983:  92
1984*b:  103
1985:  113
1986:  114
1987:  105
1988:  82
1989:  91
1990:  80
1991:  100
1992:  102
1993*b:  121
1994:  130
1995:  126
1996:  135
1997:  139
1998:  117

Location
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  19
1981:  30
1982:  22
1983:  20
1984*b:  22
1985:  21
1986:  30
1987:  20
1988:  24
1989:  28
1990:  30
1991:  28
1992:  33
1993*b:  40
1994:  30
1995:  41
1996:  36
1997:  29
1998:  34

Location
New York
Employment Year
1980:  299
1981:  324
1982:  262
1983:  296
1984*b:  347
1985:  278
1986:  292
1987:  260
1988:  286
1989:  295
1990:  326
1991:  296
1992:  312
1993*b:  361
1994:  374
1995:  404
1996:  384
1997:  414
1998:  455

Location
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  121
1981:  134
1982:  135
1983:  97
1984*b:  114
1985:  108
1986:  98
1987:  108
1988:  125
1989:  132
1990:  112
1991:  119
1992:  137
1993*b:  170
1994:  193
1995:  165
1996:  155
1997:  165
1998:  164

Location
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  9
1981:  8
1982:  4
1983:  9
1984*b:  10
1985:  9
1986:  6
1987:  8
1988:  9
1989:  10
1990:  10
1991:  8
1992:  6
1993*b:  7
1994:  7
1995:  6
1996:  9
1997:  9
1998:  12

Location
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  209
1981:  215
1982:  193
1983:  226
1984*b:  209
1985:  192
1986:  162
1987:  151
1988:  170
1989:  184
1990:  195
1991:  204
1992:  185
1993*b:  241
1994:  226
1995:  258
1996:  226
1997:  226
1998:  287

Location
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  50
1981:  53
1982:  56
1983:  50
1984*b:  56
1985:  64
1986:  43
1987:  36
1988:  66
1989:  60
1990:  55
1991:  62
1992:  47
1993*b:  71
1994:  65
1995:  71
1996:  72
1997:  92
1998:  90

Location
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  64
1981:  58
1982:  42
1983:  61
1984*b:  58
1985:  41
1986:  36
1987:  46
1988:  67
1989:  55
1990:  66
1991:  80
1992:  77
1993*b:  49
1994:  60
1995:  85
1996:  87
1997:  89
1998:  74

Location
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  259
1981:  235
1982:  175
1983:  246
1984*b:  214
1985:  193
1986:  202
1987:  217
1988:  209
1989:  212
1990:  227
1991:  240
1992:  221
1993*b:  249
1994:  278
1995:  283
1996:  275
1997:  235
1998:  270

Location
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  24
1981:  21
1982:  20
1983:  23
1984*b:  22
1985:  23
1986:  17
1987:  21
1988:  19
1989:  12
1990:  16
1991:  18
1992:  19
1993*b:  20
1994:  11
1995:  28
1996:  22
1997:  20
1998:  16

Location
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  52
1981:  64
1982:  53
1983:  51
1984*b:  68
1985:  73
1986:  70
1987:  64
1988:  68
1989:  75
1990:  71
1991:  85
1992:  80
1993*b:  78
1994:  79
1995:  85
1996:  96
1997:  107
1998:  109

Location
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  7
1981:  6
1982:  12
1983:  7
1984*b:  7
1985:  12
1986:  8
1987:  10
1988:  9
1989:  11
1990:  13
1991:  9
1992:  13
1993*b:  14
1994:  13
1995:  12
1996:  12
1997:  12
1998:  12

Location
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  80
1981:  79
1982:  133
1983:  114
1984*b:  109
1985:  148
1986:  148
1987:  116
1988:  135
1989:  126
1990:  98
1991:  119
1992:  167
1993*b:  197
1994:  134
1995:  144
1996:  216
1997:  193
1998:  138

Location
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  213
1981:  182
1982:  210
1983:  231
1984*b:  199
1985:  221
1986:  259
1987:  247
1988:  268
1989:  256
1990:  287
1991:  307
1992:  249
1993*b:  359
1994:  297
1995:  337
1996:  347
1997:  373
1998:  353

Location
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  16
1981:  13
1982:  23
1983:  20
1984*b:  22
1985:  20
1986:  17
1987:  15
1988:  19
1989:  27
1990:  13
1991:  19
1992:  13
1993*b:  24
1994:  26
1995:  30
1996:  22
1997:  28
1998:  27

Location
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  9
1981:  8
1982:  10
1983:  8
1984*b:  8
1985:  9
1986:  11
1987:  8
1988:  9
1989:  9
1990:  11
1991:  16
1992:  15
1993*b:  16
1994:  13
1995:  9
1996:  11
1997:  14
1998:  13

Location
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  88
1981:  87
1982:  93
1983:  55
1984*b:  70
1985:  86
1986:  84
1987:  86
1988:  84
1989:  114
1990:  117
1991:  135
1992:  100
1993*b:  67
1994:  119
1995:  148
1996:  170
1997:  154
1998:  140

Location
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  110
1981:  72
1982:  79
1983:  65
1984*b:  84
1985:  92
1986:  96
1987:  88
1988:  50
1989:  86
1990:  121
1991:  92
1992:  52
1993*b:  108
1994:  156
1995:  127
1996:  135
1997:  105
1998:  140

Location
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  43
1981:  40
1982:  53
1983:  43
1984*b:  44
1985:  26
1986:  30
1987:  45
1988:  45
1989:  46
1990:  37
1991:  39
1992:  47
1993*b:  62
1994:  57
1995:  65
1996:  71
1997:  56
1998:  50

Location
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  52
1981:  74
1982:  55
1983:  76
1984*b:  67
1985:  58
1986:  60
1987:  54
1988:  66
1989:  90
1990:  72
1991:  64
1992:  78
1993*b:  97
1994:  94
1995:  103
1996:  104
1997:  108
1998:  74

Location
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  6
1981:  6
1982:  7
1983:  7
1984*b:  6
1985:  9
1986:  10
1987:  10
1988:  7
1989:  7
1990:  5
1991:  8
1992:  7
1993*b:  7
1994:  8
1995:  11
1996:  8
1997:  9
1998:  9

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.


Appendix Table 4a.  Sample Size of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men without 
Disabilities Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State and the 
District of Columbia, Employment Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a

Location
United States
Employment Year
1980:  35,584
1981:  32,186
1982:  32,731
1983:  32,503
1984*b:  32,771
1985:  32,389
1986:  32,156
1987:  32,726
1988:  30,512
1989:  33,429
1990:  33,700
1991:  33,210
1992:  32,940
1993*b:  31,747
1994:  31,804
1995:  27,791
1996:  28,298
1997:  28,653
1998:  28,930

Location
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  513
1981:  467
1982:  505
1983:  495
1984*b:  401
1985:  312
1986:  383
1987:  387
1988:  368
1989:  372
1990:  395
1991:  396
1992:  380
1993*b:  341
1994:  388
1995:  320
1996:  330
1997:  356
1998:  343

Location
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  447
1981:  458
1982:  531
1983:  524
1984*b:  551
1985:  602
1986:  502
1987:  460
1988:  496
1989:  476
1990:  487
1991:  492
1992:  501
1993*b:  438
1994:  399
1995:  341
1996:  354
1997:  348
1998:  360

Location
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  541
1981:  441
1982:  413
1983:  421
1984*b:  374
1985:  346
1986:  344
1987:  374
1988:  370
1989:  374
1990:  367
1991:  355
1992:  312
1993*b:  363
1994:  426
1995:  418
1996:  447
1997:  474
1998:  505

Location
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  459
1981:  352
1982:  366
1983:  359
1984*b:  367
1985:  339
1986:  347
1987:  398
1988:  402
1989:  380
1990:  402
1991:  398
1992:  387
1993*b:  348
1994:  364
1995:  346
1996:  338
1997:  323
1998:  305

Location
California
Employment Year
1980:  3,233
1981:  3,216
1982:  3,262
1983:  3,228
1984*b:  3,226
1985:  2,911
1986:  2,870
1987:  2,952
1988:  1,704
1989:  3,094
1990:  3,252
1991:  3,252
1992:  3,133
1993*b:  2,934
1994:  2,910
1995:  2,802
1996:  2,950
1997:  2,923
1998:  2,944

Location
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  609
1981:  611
1982:  634
1983:  619
1984*b:  476
1985:  393
1986:  356
1987:  366
1988:  353
1989:  358
1990:  397
1991:  428
1992:  417
1993*b:  417
1994:  444
1995:  432
1996:  465
1997:  485
1998:  498

Location
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  411
1981:  361
1982:  384
1983:  395
1984*b:  392
1985:  380
1986:  344
1987:  324
1988:  305
1989:  345
1990:  316
1991:  304
1992:  337
1993*b:  306
1994:  277
1995:  280
1996:  266
1997:  299
1998:  302

Location
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  392
1981:  294
1982:  315
1983:  311
1984*b:  324
1985:  299
1986:  308
1987:  330
1988:  323
1989:  326
1990:  315
1991:  286
1992:  294
1993*b:  280
1994:  262
1995:  278
1996:  278
1997:  269
1998:  274

Location
DC
Employment Year
1980:  351
1981:  285
1982:  283
1983:  296
1984*b:  294
1985:  303
1986:  288
1987:  312
1988:  288
1989:  302
1990:  275
1991:  263
1992:  270
1993*b:  256
1994:  268
1995:  226
1996:  251
1997:  268
1998:  240

Location
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  1,001
1981:  992
1982:  1,009
1983:  1,011
1984*b:  1,219
1985:  1,335
1986:  1,421
1987:  1,476
1988:  1,618
1989:  1,623
1990:  1,590
1991:  1,464
1992:  1,478
1993*b:  1,405
1994:  1,343
1995:  1,323
1996:  1,301
1997:  1,351
1998:  1,362

Location
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  571
1981:  550
1982:  596
1983:  572
1984*b:  449
1985:  358
1986:  368
1987:  380
1988:  366
1989:  360
1990:  362
1991:  324
1992:  335
1993*b:  387
1994:  700
1995:  442
1996:  485
1997:  482
1998:  436

Location
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  402
1981:  353
1982:  351
1983:  350
1984*b:  324
1985:  319
1986:  294
1987:  324
1988:  320
1989:  319
1990:  313
1991:  304
1992:  315
1993*b:  278
1994:  283
1995:  294
1996:  278
1997:  240
1998:  268

Location
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  460
1981:  364
1982:  377
1983:  388
1984*b:  406
1985:  411
1986:  390
1987:  381
1988:  401
1989:  428
1990:  452
1991:  403
1992:  403
1993*b:  444
1994:  401
1995:  396
1996:  407
1997:  435
1998:  459

Location
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  1,283
1981:  1,237
1982:  1,236
1983:  1,228
1984*b:  1,309
1985:  1,366
1986:  1,322
1987:  1,341
1988:  1,376
1989:  1,432
1990:  1,377
1991:  1,404
1992:  1,378
1993*b:  1,292
1994:  1,342
1995:  1,166
1996:  1,155
1997:  1,213
1998:  1,246

Location
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  655
1981:  626
1982:  607
1983:  596
1984*b:  550
1985:  508
1986:  454
1987:  458
1988:  390
1989:  384
1990:  363
1991:  346
1992:  385
1993*b:  370
1994:  308
1995:  352
1996:  363
1997:  399
1998:  377

Location
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  572
1981:  485
1982:  488
1983:  494
1984*b:  444
1985:  369
1986:  401
1987:  411
1988:  396
1989:  406
1990:  439
1991:  421
1992:  436
1993*b:  395
1994:  345
1995:  350
1996:  356
1997:  365
1998:  350

Location
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  478
1981:  368
1982:  377
1983:  397
1984*b:  431
1985:  381
1986:  392
1987:  386
1988:  369
1989:  405
1990:  413
1991:  404
1992:  434
1993*b:  378
1994:  366
1995:  342
1996:  324
1997:  349
1998:  340

Location
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  534
1981:  426
1982:  451
1983:  429
1984*b:  381
1985:  361
1986:  351
1987:  358
1988:  315
1989:  316
1990:  333
1991:  337
1992:  356
1993*b:  343
1994:  325
1995:  325
1996:  338
1997:  333
1998:  338

Location
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  456
1981:  454
1982:  448
1983:  426
1984*b:  382
1985:  344
1986:  320
1987:  308
1988:  309
1989:  298
1990:  287
1991:  322
1992:  283
1993*b:  262
1994:  335
1995:  324
1996:  346
1997:  356
1998:  341

Location
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  461
1981:  398
1982:  397
1983:  400
1984*b:  351
1985:  308
1986:  324
1987:  315
1988:  322
1989:  337
1990:  331
1991:  332
1992:  322
1993*b:  313
1994:  259
1995:  288
1996:  290
1997:  284
1998:  304

Location
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  584
1981:  563
1982:  566
1983:  588
1984*b:  530
1985:  481
1986:  464
1987:  454
1988:  326
1989:  351
1990:  360
1991:  333
1992:  347
1993*b:  302
1994:  321
1995:  321
1996:  322
1997:  336
1998:  316

Location
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  738
1981:  730
1982:  769
1983:  790
1984*b:  1,020
1985:  1,211
1986:  1,233
1987:  1,258
1988:  1,245
1989:  1,235
1990:  1,258
1991:  1,277
1992:  1,286
1993*b:  1,273
1994:  1,284
1995:  650
1996:  651
1997:  661
1998:  679

Location
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  1,111
1981:  1,020
1982:  1,015
1983:  1,002
1984*b:  1,128
1985:  1,288
1986:  1,275
1987:  1,328
1988:  1,293
1989:  1,303
1990:  1,379
1991:  1,378
1992:  1,337
1993*b:  1,314
1994:  1,325
1995:  937
1996:  946
1997:  927
1998:  991

Location
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  561
1981:  563
1982:  590
1983:  677
1984*b:  525
1985:  401
1986:  384
1987:  377
1988:  361
1989:  329
1990:  339
1991:  341
1992:  371
1993*b:  370
1994:  387
1995:  408
1996:  423
1997:  415
1998:  391

Location
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  470
1981:  380
1982:  389
1983:  387
1984*b:  339
1985:  392
1986:  374
1987:  389
1988:  367
1989:  377
1990:  376
1991:  375
1992:  399
1993*b:  348
1994:  309
1995:  290
1996:  323
1997:  310
1998:  287

Location
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  602
1981:  585
1982:  583
1983:  550
1984*b:  528
1985:  476
1986:  447
1987:  445
1988:  368
1989:  352
1990:  364
1991:  356
1992:  355
1993*b:  345
1994:  288
1995:  332
1996:  325
1997:  304
1998:  335

Location
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  534
1981:  455
1982:  453
1983:  482
1984*b:  423
1985:  419
1986:  415
1987:  407
1988:  409
1989:  438
1990:  453
1991:  402
1992:  409
1993*b:  402
1994:  403
1995:  353
1996:  359
1997:  393
1998:  395

Location
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  518
1981:  438
1982:  412
1983:  389
1984*b:  405
1985:  398
1986:  394
1987:  403
1988:  395
1989:  410
1990:  409
1991:  421
1992:  430
1993*b:  399
1994:  380
1995:  346
1996:  369
1997:  361
1998:  403

Location
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  681
1981:  421
1982:  396
1983:  384
1984*b:  335
1985:  312
1986:  317
1987:  352
1988:  375
1989:  391
1990:  422
1991:  419
1992:  394
1993*b:  390
1994:  388
1995:  358
1996:  372
1997:  387
1998:  470

Location
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  423
1981:  310
1982:  321
1983:  308
1984*b:  280
1985:  266
1986:  281
1987:  312
1988:  287
1989:  298
1990:  284
1991:  275
1992:  305
1993*b:  276
1994:  270
1995:  279
1996:  267
1997:  289
1998:  321

Location
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  952
1981:  901
1982:  875
1983:  879
1984*b:  1,150
1985:  1,384
1986:  1,355
1987:  1,338
1988:  1,344
1989:  1,423
1990:  1,486
1991:  1,523
1992:  1,493
1993*b:  1,472
1994:  1,440
1995:  906
1996:  925
1997:  908
1998:  915

Location
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  637
1981:  393
1982:  454
1983:  475
1984*b:  498
1985:  463
1986:  462
1987:  419
1988:  437
1989:  488
1990:  466
1991:  455
1992:  404
1993*b:  389
1994:  446
1995:  445
1996:  498
1997:  483
1998:  516

Location
New York
Employment Year
1980:  2,014
1981:  1,967
1982:  1,957
1983:  1,891
1984*b:  2,122
1985:  2,232
1986:  2,253
1987:  2,176
1988:  1,452
1989:  2,447
1990:  2,440
1991:  2,336
1992:  2,218
1993*b:  2,141
1994:  2,112
1995:  1,837
1996:  1,850
1997:  1,835
1998:  1,769

Location
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  620
1981:  535
1982:  584
1983:  599
1984*b:  935
1985:  1,214
1986:  1,209
1987:  1,248
1988:  1,279
1989:  1,359
1990:  1,296
1991:  1,274
1992:  1,260
1993*b:  1,194
1994:  1,082
1995:  636
1996:  740
1997:  690
1998:  684

Location
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  514
1981:  410
1982:  403
1983:  404
1984*b:  458
1985:  402
1986:  405
1987:  451
1988:  435
1989:  409
1990:  405
1991:  411
1992:  385
1993*b:  409
1994:  356
1995:  333
1996:  323
1997:  331
1998:  328

Location
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  1,226
1981:  1,235
1982:  1,232
1983:  1,187
1984*b:  1,250
1985:  1,343
1986:  1,343
1987:  1,411
1988:  1,359
1989:  1,361
1990:  1,412
1991:  1,420
1992:  1,453
1993*b:  1,385
1994:  1,295
1995:  1,013
1996:  993
1997:  1,018
1998:  1,015

Location
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  515
1981:  441
1982:  445
1983:  415
1984*b:  440
1985:  416
1986:  366
1987:  372
1988:  359
1989:  378
1990:  379
1991:  397
1992:  393
1993*b:  413
1994:  390
1995:  366
1996:  379
1997:  409
1998:  398

Location
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  583
1981:  446
1982:  434
1983:  450
1984*b:  394
1985:  306
1986:  329
1987:  318
1988:  319
1989:  336
1990:  352
1991:  349
1992:  367
1993*b:  365
1994:  390
1995:  353
1996:  343
1997:  385
1998:  394

Location
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  1,323
1981:  1,299
1982:  1,286
1983:  1,226
1984*b:  1,256
1985:  1,333
1986:  1,268
1987:  1,342
1988:  1,333
1989:  1,390
1990:  1,344
1991:  1,371
1992:  1,330
1993*b:  1,334
1994:  1,363
1995:  1,147
1996:  1,134
1997:  1,144
1998:  1,155

Location
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  382
1981:  268
1982:  286
1983:  322
1984*b:  286
1985:  270
1986:  299
1987:  295
1988:  295
1989:  297
1990:  272
1991:  287
1992:  284
1993*b:  290
1994:  266
1995:  284
1996:  264
1997:  258
1998:  305

Location
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  401
1981:  348
1982:  337
1983:  314
1984*b:  355
1985:  375
1986:  401
1987:  430
1988:  448
1989:  434
1990:  424
1991:  422
1992:  399
1993*b:  365
1994:  319
1995:  280
1996:  298
1997:  303
1998:  288

Location
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  509
1981:  459
1982:  466
1983:  485
1984*b:  455
1985:  446
1986:  460
1987:  481
1988:  458
1989:  449
1990:  431
1991:  432
1992:  487
1993*b:  469
1994:  447
1995:  386
1996:  357
1997:  334
1998:  334

Location
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  471
1981:  440
1982:  452
1983:  441
1984*b:  410
1985:  344
1986:  355
1987:  384
1988:  382
1989:  371
1990:  381
1991:  371
1992:  372
1993*b:  359
1994:  310
1995:  324
1996:  325
1997:  362
1998:  369

Location
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  1,778
1981:  1,828
1982:  1,767
1983:  1,804
1984*b:  1,819
1985:  1,740
1986:  1,749
1987:  1,695
1988:  1,775
1989:  1,772
1990:  1,828
1991:  1,728
1992:  1,761
1993*b:  1,720
1994:  1,672
1995:  1,591
1996:  1,639
1997:  1,638
1998:  1,668

Location
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  621
1981:  463
1982:  480
1983:  461
1984*b:  378
1985:  331
1986:  369
1987:  370
1988:  355
1989:  356
1990:  374
1991:  336
1992:  353
1993*b:  377
1994:  367
1995:  382
1996:  374
1997:  374
1998:  380

Location
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  412
1981:  331
1982:  345
1983:  333
1984*b:  312
1985:  286
1986:  287
1987:  289
1988:  287
1989:  279
1990:  253
1991:  273
1992:  246
1993*b:  258
1994:  271
1995:  293
1996:  297
1997:  281
1998:  288

Location
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  576
1981:  553
1982:  622
1983:  608
1984*b:  526
1985:  445
1986:  473
1987:  483
1988:  457
1989:  486
1990:  508
1991:  492
1992:  493
1993*b:  448
1994:  706
1995:  383
1996:  422
1997:  430
1998:  427

Location
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  525
1981:  461
1982:  506
1983:  503
1984*b:  434
1985:  356
1986:  342
1987:  367
1988:  402
1989:  431
1990:  399
1991:  372
1992:  348
1993*b:  353
1994:  373
1995:  382
1996:  394
1997:  425
1998:  415

Location
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  475
1981:  340
1982:  365
1983:  347
1984*b:  356
1985:  340
1986:  345
1987:  337
1988:  358
1989:  371
1990:  372
1991:  372
1992:  340
1993*b:  319
1994:  325
1995:  332
1996:  319
1997:  333
1998:  316

Location
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  522
1981:  516
1982:  534
1983:  507
1984*b:  431
1985:  467
1986:  464
1987:  463
1988:  462
1989:  464
1990:  466
1991:  472
1992:  467
1993*b:  448
1994:  416
1995:  438
1996:  422
1997:  414
1998:  414

Location
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  477
1981:  349
1982:  377
1983:  356
1984*b:  342
1985:  307
1986:  259
1987:  291
1988:  299
1989:  309
1990:  302
1991:  305
1992:  298
1993*b:  270
1994:  358
1995:  361
1996:  323
1997:  363
1998:  372

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999. 
a.   Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.

Appendix Table 4b.  Sample Size of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Men with 
Disabilities Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State and the 
District of Columbia, Employment Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a

Location
United States
Employment Year
1980:  3,093
1981:  2,828
1982:  2,762
1983:  2,793
1984*b:  2,781
1985:  2,789
1986:  2,743
1987:  2,653
1988:  2,491
1989:  2,745
1990:  2,734
1991:  2,828
1992:  2,893
1993*b:  2,818
1994:  2,785
1995:  2,382
1996:  2,475
1997:  2,323
1998:  2,368

Location
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  52
1981:  52
1982:  49
1983:  53
1984*b:  25
1985:  24
1986:  37
1987:  30
1988:  34
1989:  45
1990:  41
1991:  52
1992:  39
1993*b:  50
1994:  36
1995:  43
1996:  42
1997:  37
1998:  34

Location
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  34
1981:  33
1982:  41
1983:  35
1984*b:  28
1985:  30
1986:  35
1987:  27
1988:  40
1989:  25
1990:  30
1991:  31
1992:  28
1993*b:  29
1994:  33
1995:  28
1996:  30
1997:  28
1998:  24

Location
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  55
1981:  42
1982:  44
1983:  31
1984*b:  29
1985:  31
1986:  36
1987:  37
1988:  26
1989:  36
1990:  30
1991:  25
1992:  40
1993*b:  30
1994:  32
1995:  28
1996:  39
1997:  29
1998:  30

Location
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  73
1981:  58
1982:  53
1983:  41
1984*b:  49
1985:  53
1986:  59
1987:  54
1988:  44
1989:  39
1990:  46
1991:  48
1992:  44
1993*b:  51
1994:  32
1995:  53
1996:  50
1997:  49
1998:  44

Location
California
Employment Year
1980:  242
1981:  292
1982:  252
1983:  244
1984*b:  254
1985:  230
1986:  222
1987:  216
1988:  128
1989:  229
1990:  234
1991:  230
1992:  253
1993*b:  236
1994:  219
1995:  206
1996:  221
1997:  184
1998:  199

Location
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  33
1981:  38
1982:  51
1983:  53
1984*b:  37
1985:  22
1986:  39
1987:  24
1988:  30
1989:  31
1990:  29
1991:  40
1992:  46
1993*b:  25
1994:  28
1995:  32
1996:  36
1997:  32
1998:  38

Location
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  25
1981:  20
1982:  19
1983:  21
1984*b:  23
1985:  22
1986:  14
1987:  20
1988:  16
1989:  13
1990:  14
1991:  17
1992:  17
1993*b:  19
1994:  16
1995:  15
1996:  17
1997:  29
1998:  28

Location
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  39
1981:  30
1982:  23
1983:  22
1984*b:  26
1985:  21
1986:  21
1987:  17
1988:  26
1989:  24
1990:  16
1991:  22
1992:  26
1993*b:  18
1994:  22
1995:  21
1996:  19
1997:  16
1998:  15

Location
DC
Employment Year
1980:  44
1981:  22
1982:  24
1983:  31
1984*b:  31
1985:  25
1986:  24
1987:  19
1988:  18
1989:  24
1990:  40
1991:  20
1992:  22
1993*b:  22
1994:  21
1995:  28
1996:  23
1997:  19
1998:  22

Location
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  78
1981:  95
1982:  97
1983:  95
1984*b:  117
1985:  121
1986:  120
1987:  132
1988:  145
1989:  142
1990:  134
1991:  144
1992:  126
1993*b:  157
1994:  143
1995:  112
1996:  128
1997:  115
1998:  143

Location
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  81
1981:  59
1982:  54
1983:  51
1984*b:  49
1985:  49
1986:  38
1987:  33
1988:  35
1989:  32
1990:  32
1991:  30
1992:  33
1993*b:  33
1994:  70
1995:  42
1996:  41
1997:  43
1998:  46

Location
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  36
1981:  35
1982:  31
1983:  27
1984*b:  32
1985:  31
1986:  29
1987:  18
1988:  17
1989:  22
1990:  11
1991:  24
1992:  25
1993*b:  24
1994:  21
1995:  15
1996:  20
1997:  17
1998:  16

Location
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  42
1981:  20
1982:  36
1983:  48
1984*b:  47
1985:  45
1986:  42
1987:  43
1988:  20
1989:  44
1990:  37
1991:  39
1992:  29
1993*b:  27
1994:  37
1995:  40
1996:  32
1997:  45
1998:  27

Location
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  92
1981:  83
1982:  72
1983:  83
1984*b:  83
1985:  79
1986:  93
1987:  93
1988:  84
1989:  97
1990:  96
1991:  98
1992:  107
1993*b:  101
1994:  93
1995:  70
1996:  85
1997:  70
1998:  87

Location
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  37
1981:  52
1982:  54
1983:  45
1984*b:  30
1985:  33
1986:  45
1987:  39
1988:  24
1989:  26
1990:  28
1991:  27
1992:  19
1993*b:  20
1994:  24
1995:  24
1996:  29
1997:  21
1998:  35

Location
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  31
1981:  35
1982:  29
1983:  37
1984*b:  28
1985:  30
1986:  31
1987:  28
1988:  20
1989:  28
1990:  29
1991:  31
1992:  39
1993*b:  39
1994:  33
1995:  21
1996:  22
1997:  20
1998:  22

Location
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  28
1981:  18
1982:  22
1983:  24
1984*b:  21
1985:  25
1986:  27
1987:  20
1988:  19
1989:  23
1990:  18
1991:  24
1992:  31
1993*b:  28
1994:  25
1995:  40
1996:  34
1997:  25
1998:  24

Location
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  57
1981:  57
1982:  42
1983:  52
1984*b:  40
1985:  42
1986:  43
1987:  42
1988:  44
1989:  44
1990:  54
1991:  55
1992:  64
1993*b:  62
1994:  50
1995:  53
1996:  41
1997:  38
1998:  53

Location
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  57
1981:  52
1982:  54
1983:  45
1984*b:  33
1985:  45
1986:  38
1987:  42
1988:  45
1989:  40
1990:  33
1991:  23
1992:  31
1993*b:  45
1994:  45
1995:  42
1996:  40
1997:  35
1998:  42

Location
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  48
1981:  43
1982:  39
1983:  42
1984*b:  40
1985:  29
1986:  34
1987:  30
1988:  34
1989:  35
1990:  31
1991:  37
1992:  45
1993*b:  36
1994:  40
1995:  32
1996:  34
1997:  38
1998:  34

Location
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  33
1981:  36
1982:  36
1983:  40
1984*b:  48
1985:  27
1986:  26
1987:  23
1988:  27
1989:  19
1990:  14
1991:  21
1992:  23
1993*b:  35
1994:  27
1995:  23
1996:  19
1997:  19
1998:  17

Location
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  58
1981:  51
1982:  56
1983:  48
1984*b:  69
1985:  109
1986:  70
1987:  83
1988:  99
1989:  91
1990:  114
1991:  98
1992:  89
1993*b:  100
1994:  119
1995:  68
1996:  62
1997:  74
1998:  48

Location
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  95
1981:  93
1982:  107
1983:  106
1984*b:  146
1985:  148
1986:  122
1987:  123
1988:  113
1989:  141
1990:  126
1991:  131
1992:  128
1993*b:  127
1994:  135
1995:  74
1996:  78
1997:  72
1998:  71

Location
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  38
1981:  41
1982:  45
1983:  62
1984*b:  41
1985:  36
1986:  33
1987:  37
1988:  33
1989:  27
1990:  25
1991:  36
1992:  29
1993*b:  33
1994:  27
1995:  20
1996:  29
1997:  27
1998:  24

Location
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  66
1981:  42
1982:  49
1983:  50
1984*b:  51
1985:  42
1986:  42
1987:  49
1988:  48
1989:  48
1990:  49
1991:  52
1992:  42
1993*b:  39
1994:  28
1995:  33
1996:  33
1997:  28
1998:  34

Location
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  53
1981:  63
1982:  58
1983:  59
1984*b:  47
1985:  44
1986:  37
1987:  39
1988:  39
1989:  34
1990:  30
1991:  29
1992:  39
1993*b:  28
1994:  29
1995:  19
1996:  21
1997:  28
1998:  28

Location
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  39
1981:  23
1982:  50
1983:  52
1984*b:  38
1985:  50
1986:  52
1987:  55
1988:  49
1989:  55
1990:  44
1991:  37
1992:  37
1993*b:  38
1994:  36
1995:  45
1996:  51
1997:  49
1998:  54

Location
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  31
1981:  30
1982:  28
1983:  30
1984*b:  29
1985:  12
1986:  22
1987:  29
1988:  25
1989:  18
1990:  29
1991:  31
1992:  24
1993*b:  20
1994:  29
1995:  24
1996:  27
1997:  28
1998:  18

Location
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  60
1981:  23
1982:  22
1983:  20
1984*b:  21
1985:  24
1986:  22
1987:  32
1988:  27
1989:  18
1990:  20
1991:  28
1992:  26
1993*b:  36
1994:  20
1995:  25
1996:  20
1997:  24
1998:  32

Location
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  20
1981:  36
1982:  30
1983:  28
1984*b:  20
1985:  14
1986:  23
1987:  19
1988:  23
1989:  23
1990:  20
1991:  20
1992:  26
1993*b:  24
1994:  27
1995:  31
1996:  30
1997:  20
1998:  21

Location
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  55
1981:  69
1982:  56
1983:  46
1984*b:  75
1985:  88
1986:  93
1987:  74
1988:  67
1989:  64
1990:  66
1991:  66
1992:  76
1993*b:  90
1994:  81
1995:  47
1996:  70
1997:  43
1998:  56

Location
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  83
1981:  70
1982:  56
1983:  56
1984*b:  49
1985:  38
1986:  47
1987:  48
1988:  48
1989:  54
1990:  52
1991:  46
1992:  52
1993*b:  55
1994:  49
1995:  52
1996:  64
1997:  57
1998:  47

Location
New York
Employment Year
1980:  135
1981:  149
1982:  145
1983:  165
1984*b:  173
1985:  193
1986:  137
1987:  155
1988:  114
1989:  164
1990:  192
1991:  175
1992:  194
1993*b:  189
1994:  187
1995:  148
1996:  165
1997:  141
1998:  165

Location
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  61
1981:  64
1982:  58
1983:  62
1984*b:  98
1985:  136
1986:  115
1987:  106
1988:  105
1989:  106
1990:  102
1991:  114
1992:  112
1993*b:  107
1994:  89
1995:  57
1996:  52
1997:  70
1998:  68

Location
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  37
1981:  31
1982:  33
1983:  27
1984*b:  24
1985:  26
1986:  33
1987:  40
1988:  30
1989:  38
1990:  37
1991:  35
1992:  25
1993*b:  29
1994:  25
1995:  19
1996:  22
1997:  24
1998:  18

Location
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  123
1981:  109
1982:  104
1983:  111
1984*b:  114
1985:  105
1986:  124
1987:  125
1988:  134
1989:  128
1990:  133
1991:  131
1992:  124
1993*b:  120
1994:  112
1995:  98
1996:  94
1997:  86
1998:  90

Location
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  50
1981:  47
1982:  45
1983:  40
1984*b:  27
1985:  37
1986:  40
1987:  27
1988:  41
1989:  41
1990:  45
1991:  49
1992:  39
1993*b:  51
1994:  43
1995:  39
1996:  38
1997:  41
1998:  44

Location
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  61
1981:  45
1982:  43
1983:  46
1984*b:  32
1985:  33
1986:  41
1987:  44
1988:  38
1989:  26
1990:  31
1991:  36
1992:  30
1993*b:  28
1994:  27
1995:  29
1996:  26
1997:  21
1998:  27

Location
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  134
1981:  110
1982:  107
1983:  112
1984*b:  133
1985:  141
1986:  132
1987:  100
1988:  101
1989:  87
1990:  95
1991:  134
1992:  145
1993*b:  102
1994:  125
1995:  101
1996:  119
1997:  112
1998:  100

Location
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  45
1981:  24
1982:  29
1983:  33
1984*b:  23
1985:  24
1986:  21
1987:  22
1988:  26
1989:  21
1990:  24
1991:  25
1992:  31
1993*b:  20
1994:  32
1995:  29
1996:  24
1997:  29
1998:  27

Location
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  39
1981:  22
1982:  29
1983:  33
1984*b:  31
1985:  37
1986:  42
1987:  32
1988:  26
1989:  54
1990:  45
1991:  50
1992:  44
1993*b:  41
1994:  45
1995:  30
1996:  16
1997:  19
1998:  25

Location
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  31
1981:  42
1982:  40
1983:  32
1984*b:  34
1985:  35
1986:  30
1987:  27
1988:  31
1989:  31
1990:  29
1991:  37
1992:  54
1993*b:  37
1994:  27
1995:  29
1996:  29
1997:  25
1998:  25

Location
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  38
1981:  51
1982:  59
1983:  46
1984*b:  45
1985:  47
1986:  44
1987:  39
1988:  42
1989:  39
1990:  38
1991:  49
1992:  57
1993*b:  52
1994:  47
1995:  40
1996:  49
1997:  36
1998:  32

Location
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  160
1981:  130
1982:  116
1983:  146
1984*b:  150
1985:  132
1986:  152
1987:  149
1988:  135
1989:  176
1990:  143
1991:  145
1992:  140
1993*b:  131
1994:  144
1995:  127
1996:  88
1997:  125
1998:  120

Location
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  45
1981:  39
1982:  30
1983:  26
1984*b:  23
1985:  24
1986:  18
1987:  16
1988:  22
1989:  24
1990:  24
1991:  18
1992:  22
1993*b:  32
1994:  23
1995:  23
1996:  24
1997:  27
1998:  22

Location
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  53
1981:  33
1982:  25
1983:  33
1984*b:  20
1985:  20
1986:  20
1987:  26
1988:  21
1989:  19
1990:  25
1991:  27
1992:  26
1993*b:  22
1994:  23
1995:  26
1996:  30
1997:  31
1998:  20

Location
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  53
1981:  41
1982:  52
1983:  45
1984*b:  48
1985:  39
1986:  41
1987:  47
1988:  39
1989:  38
1990:  39
1991:  33
1992:  33
1993*b:  34
1994:  54
1995:  41
1996:  37
1997:  29
1998:  22

Location
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  67
1981:  50
1982:  46
1983:  43
1984*b:  32
1985:  38
1986:  38
1987:  26
1988:  30
1989:  41
1990:  50
1991:  37
1992:  32
1993*b:  28
1994:  32
1995:  33
1996:  35
1997:  28
1998:  29

Location
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  76
1981:  66
1982:  55
1983:  60
1984*b:  54
1985:  53
1986:  53
1987:  45
1988:  46
1989:  56
1990:  50
1991:  56
1992:  63
1993*b:  56
1994:  69
1995:  52
1996:  64
1997:  54
1998:  47

Location
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  42
1981:  38
1982:  41
1983:  35
1984*b:  36
1985:  24
1986:  26
1987:  28
1988:  33
1989:  33
1990:  34
1991:  32
1992:  43
1993*b:  38
1994:  26
1995:  23
1996:  35
1997:  38
1998:  42

Location
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  28
1981:  24
1982:  26
1983:  21
1984*b:  28
1985:  26
1986:  20
1987:  24
1988:  30
1989:  32
1990:  26
1991:  33
1992:  24
1993*b:  24
1994:  28
1995:  32
1996:  41
1997:  28
1998:  32

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.


Appendix Table 4c.  Sample Size of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women without 
Disabilities Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State and the 
District of Columbia, Employment Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a

Location
United States
Employment Year
1980:  38,977
1981:  35,409
1982:  35,808
1983:  35,863
1984*b:  36,278
1985:  35,712
1986:  35,540
1987:  35,963
1988:  33,375
1989:  36,731
1990:  36,842
1991:  36,347
1992:  36,141
1993*b:  34,974
1994:  34,834
1995:  30,371
1996:  30,725
1997:  30,884
1998:  31,194

Location
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  600
1981:  544
1982:  559
1983:  536
1984*b:  460
1985:  347
1986:  452
1987:  425
1988:  401
1989:  431
1990:  440
1991:  445
1992:  424
1993*b:  391
1994:  415
1995:  382
1996:  390
1997:  393
1998:  391

Location
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  468
1981:  492
1982:  536
1983:  565
1984*b:  616
1985:  630
1986:  540
1987:  505
1988:  534
1989:  508
1990:  535
1991:  543
1992:  536
1993*b:  471
1994:  435
1995:  361
1996:  378
1997:  344
1998:  370

Location
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  621
1981:  498
1982:  469
1983:  451
1984*b:  427
1985:  356
1986:  368
1987:  419
1988:  394
1989:  419
1990:  416
1991:  391
1992:  386
1993*b:  376
1994:  451
1995:  469
1996:  509
1997:  527
1998:  554

Location
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  520
1981:  416
1982:  417
1983:  418
1984*b:  420
1985:  359
1986:  412
1987:  444
1988:  445
1989:  449
1990:  449
1991:  422
1992:  400
1993*b:  398
1994:  380
1995:  374
1996:  367
1997:  361
1998:  354

Location
California
Employment Year
1980:  3,434
1981:  3,473
1982:  3,498
1983:  3,551
1984*b:  3,450
1985:  3,078
1986:  3,075
1987:  3,146
1988:  1,848
1989:  3,299
1990:  3,378
1991:  3,345
1992:  3,315
1993*b:  3,158
1994:  3,098
1995:  2,955
1996:  3,034
1997:  3,113
1998:  3,073

Location
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  647
1981:  633
1982:  645
1983:  659
1984*b:  503
1985:  424
1986:  410
1987:  389
1988:  410
1989:  410
1990:  395
1991:  405
1992:  416
1993*b:  415
1994:  426
1995:  431
1996:  464
1997:  471
1998:  483

Location
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  460
1981:  409
1982:  420
1983:  416
1984*b:  409
1985:  438
1986:  381
1987:  349
1988:  320
1989:  333
1990:  342
1991:  342
1992:  354
1993*b:  342
1994:  315
1995:  319
1996:  329
1997:  344
1998:  347

Location
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  407
1981:  318
1982:  341
1983:  387
1984*b:  371
1985:  332
1986:  319
1987:  332
1988:  340
1989:  350
1990:  339
1991:  326
1992:  315
1993*b:  293
1994:  285
1995:  313
1996:  322
1997:  320
1998:  317

Location
DC
Employment Year
1980:  436
1981:  351
1982:  340
1983:  318
1984*b:  360
1985:  352
1986:  387
1987:  351
1988:  338
1989:  364
1990:  340
1991:  314
1992:  304
1993*b:  298
1994:  319
1995:  323
1996:  302
1997:  304
1998:  278

Location
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  1,203
1981:  1,159
1982:  1,179
1983:  1,162
1984*b:  1,405
1985:  1,520
1986:  1,639
1987:  1,738
1988:  1,768
1989:  1,809
1990:  1,798
1991:  1,687
1992:  1,690
1993*b:  1,680
1994:  1,552
1995:  1,514
1996:  1,459
1997:  1,476
1998:  1,491

Location
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  660
1981:  619
1982:  664
1983:  636
1984*b:  517
1985:  425
1986:  426
1987:  426
1988:  429
1989:  403
1990:  423
1991:  389
1992:  396
1993*b:  431
1994:  785
1995:  504
1996:  504
1997:  540
1998:  535

Location
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  471
1981:  399
1982:  398
1983:  420
1984*b:  386
1985:  378
1986:  353
1987:  369
1988:  363
1989:  362
1990:  337
1991:  345
1992:  348
1993*b:  341
1994:  308
1995:  325
1996:  319
1997:  276
1998:  278

Location
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  461
1981:  361
1982:  396
1983:  425
1984*b:  443
1985:  408
1986:  426
1987:  415
1988:  410
1989:  448
1990:  450
1991:  420
1992:  415
1993*b:  470
1994:  402
1995:  391
1996:  422
1997:  435
1998:  437

Location
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  1,417
1981:  1,372
1982:  1,287
1983:  1,319
1984*b:  1,426
1985:  1,539
1986:  1,456
1987:  1,459
1988:  1,445
1989:  1,474
1990:  1,486
1991:  1,541
1992:  1,513
1993*b:  1,468
1994:  1,523
1995:  1,307
1996:  1,311
1997:  1,294
1998:  1,314

Location
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  711
1981:  670
1982:  657
1983:  632
1984*b:  537
1985:  523
1986:  506
1987:  513
1988:  427
1989:  402
1990:  389
1991:  399
1992:  405
1993*b:  400
1994:  323
1995:  358
1996:  373
1997:  400
1998:  411

Location
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  600
1981:  505
1982:  499
1983:  542
1984*b:  475
1985:  408
1986:  417
1987:  425
1988:  412
1989:  421
1990:  440
1991:  449
1992:  463
1993*b:  404
1994:  359
1995:  378
1996:  379
1997:  381
1998:  351

Location
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  495
1981:  388
1982:  386
1983:  418
1984*b:  427
1985:  408
1986:  408
1987:  424
1988:  414
1989:  437
1990:  443
1991:  448
1992:  454
1993*b:  412
1994:  369
1995:  348
1996:  334
1997:  340
1998:  354

Location
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  576
1981:  484
1982:  505
1983:  514
1984*b:  437
1985:  395
1986:  414
1987:  415
1988:  366
1989:  380
1990:  388
1991:  404
1992:  420
1993*b:  394
1994:  363
1995:  357
1996:  386
1997:  377
1998:  392

Location
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  540
1981:  497
1982:  489
1983:  479
1984*b:  419
1985:  385
1986:  348
1987:  367
1988:  378
1989:  354
1990:  358
1991:  356
1992:  360
1993*b:  342
1994:  389
1995:  373
1996:  393
1997:  403
1998:  416

Location
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  506
1981:  439
1982:  442
1983:  474
1984*b:  412
1985:  326
1986:  335
1987:  340
1988:  357
1989:  385
1990:  375
1991:  359
1992:  351
1993*b:  340
1994:  285
1995:  309
1996:  299
1997:  321
1998:  332

Location
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  615
1981:  654
1982:  645
1983:  648
1984*b:  602
1985:  563
1986:  517
1987:  515
1988:  350
1989:  390
1990:  388
1991:  385
1992:  390
1993*b:  334
1994:  360
1995:  370
1996:  364
1997:  388
1998:  364

Location
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  817
1981:  796
1982:  819
1983:  834
1984*b:  1,162
1985:  1,429
1986:  1,412
1987:  1,440
1988:  1,369
1989:  1,387
1990:  1,405
1991:  1,359
1992:  1,374
1993*b:  1,397
1994:  1,437
1995:  712
1996:  718
1997:  729
1998:  762

Location
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  1,187
1981:  1,131
1982:  1,166
1983:  1,072
1984*b:  1,275
1985:  1,393
1986:  1,360
1987:  1,379
1988:  1,354
1989:  1,441
1990:  1,446
1991:  1,456
1992:  1,435
1993*b:  1,403
1994:  1,451
1995:  1,026
1996:  1,018
1997:  971
1998:  987

Location
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  567
1981:  574
1982:  604
1983:  678
1984*b:  529
1985:  427
1986:  380
1987:  386
1988:  378
1989:  358
1990:  379
1991:  369
1992:  403
1993*b:  385
1994:  380
1995:  424
1996:  434
1997:  450
1998:  422

Location
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  560
1981:  453
1982:  453
1983:  443
1984*b:  405
1985:  428
1986:  409
1987:  426
1988:  412
1989:  455
1990:  430
1991:  428
1992:  457
1993*b:  444
1994:  366
1995:  385
1996:  384
1997:  351
1998:  348

Location
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  650
1981:  615
1982:  644
1983:  623
1984*b:  602
1985:  518
1986:  469
1987:  468
1988:  392
1989:  393
1990:  384
1991:  388
1992:  401
1993*b:  371
1994:  294
1995:  355
1996:  346
1997:  343
1998:  341

Location
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  525
1981:  451
1982:  454
1983:  449
1984*b:  438
1985:  462
1986:  462
1987:  451
1988:  445
1989:  467
1990:  467
1991:  430
1992:  429
1993*b:  427
1994:  410
1995:  359
1996:  382
1997:  403
1998:  415

Location
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  535
1981:  467
1982:  432
1983:  420
1984*b:  461
1985:  426
1986:  439
1987:  433
1988:  414
1989:  454
1990:  459
1991:  468
1992:  492
1993*b:  450
1994:  437
1995:  370
1996:  375
1997:  381
1998:  381

Location
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  674
1981:  424
1982:  376
1983:  369
1984*b:  349
1985:  347
1986:  353
1987:  358
1988:  383
1989:  410
1990:  425
1991:  421
1992:  394
1993*b:  374
1994:  374
1995:  337
1996:  375
1997:  428
1998:  477

Location
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  443
1981:  340
1982:  343
1983:  338
1984*b:  318
1985:  282
1986:  291
1987:  323
1988:  312
1989:  322
1990:  281
1991:  294
1992:  309
1993*b:  265
1994:  279
1995:  298
1996:  277
1997:  294
1998:  316

Location
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  1,078
1981:  994
1982:  974
1983:  1,000
1984*b:  1,280
1985:  1,544
1986:  1,535
1987:  1,464
1988:  1,478
1989:  1,558
1990:  1,612
1991:  1,615
1992:  1,583
1993*b:  1,611
1994:  1,566
1995:  992
1996:  994
1997:  1,011
1998:  1,053

Location
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  743
1981:  469
1982:  545
1983:  555
1984*b:  570
1985:  496
1986:  501
1987:  483
1988:  520
1989:  564
1990:  515
1991:  500
1992:  468
1993*b:  441
1994:  510
1995:  525
1996:  558
1997:  573
1998:  570

Location
New York
Employment Year
1980:  2,331
1981:  2,234
1982:  2,353
1983:  2,329
1984*b:  2,559
1985:  2,671
1986:  2,615
1987:  2,593
1988:  1,693
1989:  2,796
1990:  2,812
1991:  2,775
1992:  2,695
1993*b:  2,615
1994:  2,552
1995:  2,145
1996:  2,146
1997:  2,029
1998:  2,027

Location
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  685
1981:  626
1982:  671
1983:  680
1984*b:  1,041
1985:  1,377
1986:  1,410
1987:  1,379
1988:  1,411
1989:  1,433
1990:  1,419
1991:  1,437
1992:  1,464
1993*b:  1,349
1994:  1,208
1995:  715
1996:  782
1997:  750
1998:  764

Location
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  531
1981:  403
1982:  429
1983:  422
1984*b:  442
1985:  436
1986:  430
1987:  450
1988:  452
1989:  428
1990:  456
1991:  454
1992:  430
1993*b:  427
1994:  391
1995:  345
1996:  334
1997:  344
1998:  349

Location
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  1,373
1981:  1,335
1982:  1,357
1983:  1,312
1984*b:  1,412
1985:  1,472
1986:  1,523
1987:  1,535
1988:  1,515
1989:  1,514
1990:  1,593
1991:  1,566
1992:  1,581
1993*b:  1,495
1994:  1,445
1995:  1,070
1996:  1,054
1997:  1,126
1998:  1,106

Location
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  547
1981:  479
1982:  497
1983:  488
1984*b:  472
1985:  476
1986:  408
1987:  429
1988:  397
1989:  403
1990:  416
1991:  413
1992:  440
1993*b:  452
1994:  454
1995:  418
1996:  433
1997:  421
1998:  424

Location
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  600
1981:  477
1982:  472
1983:  482
1984*b:  425
1985:  334
1986:  353
1987:  306
1988:  336
1989:  368
1990:  349
1991:  385
1992:  384
1993*b:  371
1994:  370
1995:  367
1996:  346
1997:  382
1998:  416

Location
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  1,424
1981:  1,389
1982:  1,430
1983:  1,378
1984*b:  1,439
1985:  1,460
1986:  1,387
1987:  1,440
1988:  1,500
1989:  1,507
1990:  1,537
1991:  1,526
1992:  1,474
1993*b:  1,423
1994:  1,470
1995:  1,273
1996:  1,250
1997:  1,241
1998:  1,277

Location
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  454
1981:  335
1982:  313
1983:  354
1984*b:  331
1985:  310
1986:  309
1987:  308
1988:  309
1989:  312
1990:  282
1991:  299
1992:  299
1993*b:  317
1994:  299
1995:  278
1996:  302
1997:  289
1998:  309

Location
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  437
1981:  415
1982:  424
1983:  410
1984*b:  404
1985:  427
1986:  447
1987:  506
1988:  479
1989:  525
1990:  488
1991:  472
1992:  473
1993*b:  430
1994:  365
1995:  322
1996:  324
1997:  328
1998:  321

Location
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  553
1981:  516
1982:  481
1983:  469
1984*b:  466
1985:  443
1986:  494
1987:  495
1988:  476
1989:  457
1990:  431
1991:  425
1992:  468
1993*b:  469
1994:  429
1995:  369
1996:  364
1997:  322
1998:  331

Location
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  523
1981:  510
1982:  476
1983:  464
1984*b:  451
1985:  383
1986:  382
1987:  411
1988:  412
1989:  407
1990:  414
1991:  448
1992:  443
1993*b:  412
1994:  398
1995:  379
1996:  373
1997:  376
1998:  420

Location
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  1,965
1981:  1,949
1982:  1,913
1983:  1,961
1984*b:  1,984
1985:  1,926
1986:  1,850
1987:  1,897
1988:  1,959
1989:  2,033
1990:  1,982
1991:  1,893
1992:  1,882
1993*b:  1,869
1994:  1,822
1995:  1,726
1996:  1,809
1997:  1,796
1998:  1,817

Location
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  682
1981:  508
1982:  498
1983:  491
1984*b:  390
1985:  340
1986:  378
1987:  390
1988:  380
1989:  384
1990:  404
1991:  377
1992:  371
1993*b:  372
1994:  344
1995:  371
1996:  400
1997:  403
1998:  394

Location
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  441
1981:  344
1982:  342
1983:  335
1984*b:  309
1985:  305
1986:  315
1987:  319
1988:  312
1989:  308
1990:  309
1991:  303
1992:  259
1993*b:  259
1994:  301
1995:  317
1996:  295
1997:  284
1998:  287

Location
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  690
1981:  690
1982:  707
1983:  708
1984*b:  606
1985:  490
1986:  531
1987:  563
1988:  546
1989:  568
1990:  575
1991:  517
1992:  532
1993*b:  515
1994:  769
1995:  455
1996:  464
1997:  455
1998:  454

Location
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  577
1981:  521
1982:  549
1983:  549
1984*b:  456
1985:  369
1986:  367
1987:  389
1988:  421
1989:  452
1990:  449
1991:  405
1992:  380
1993*b:  361
1994:  370
1995:  367
1996:  379
1997:  437
1998:  442

Location
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  545
1981:  422
1982:  422
1983:  401
1984*b:  417
1985:  404
1986:  410
1987:  415
1988:  404
1989:  406
1990:  410
1991:  414
1992:  364
1993*b:  364
1994:  374
1995:  385
1996:  351
1997:  361
1998:  359

Location
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  553
1981:  549
1982:  550
1983:  532
1984*b:  439
1985:  445
1986:  470
1987:  475
1988:  462
1989:  472
1990:  488
1991:  490
1992:  500
1993*b:  459
1994:  441
1995:  457
1996:  444
1997:  411
1998:  408

Location
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  439
1981:  312
1982:  342
1983:  347
1984*b:  344
1985:  298
1986:  261
1987:  286
1988:  305
1989:  321
1990:  316
1991:  305
1992:  302
1993*b:  289
1994:  386
1995:  368
1996:  376
1997:  387
1998:  375

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999. 

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.   In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.


Appendix Table 4d.  Sample Size of Non-Institutionalized Civilian Women with 
Disabilities Aged 25 through 61 in the United States, and for Each State and the 
District of Columbia, Employment Years 1980 through 1998 (in thousands)*a

Location
United States
Employment Year
1980:  3,224
1981:  2,918
1982:  2,761
1983:  2,727
1984*b:  2,829
1985:  2,679
1986:  2,626
1987:  2,530
1988:  2,410
1989:  2,705
1990:  2,754
1991:  2,762
1992:  2,781
1993*b:  2,970
1994:  3,008
1995:  2,725
1996:  2,759
1997:  2,764
1998:  2,649

Location
Alabama
Employment Year
1980:  67
1981:  49
1982:  38
1983:  42
1984*b:  42
1985:  40
1986:  38
1987:  38
1988:  31
1989:  39
1990:  51
1991:  44
1992:  35
1993*b:  54
1994:  46
1995:  39
1996:  41
1997:  53
1998:  50

Location
Alaska
Employment Year
1980:  33
1981:  25
1982:  29
1983:  28
1984*b:  25
1985:  26
1986:  37
1987:  24
1988:  20
1989:  29
1990:  26
1991:  35
1992:  26
1993*b:  40
1994:  27
1995:  20
1996:  24
1997:  32
1998:  29

Location
Arizona
Employment Year
1980:  53
1981:  44
1982:  33
1983:  48
1984*b:  41
1985:  31
1986:  34
1987:  20
1988:  26
1989:  25
1990:  23
1991:  26
1992:  29
1993*b:  34
1994:  38
1995:  35
1996:  52
1997:  47
1998:  34

Location
Arkansas
Employment Year
1980:  79
1981:  55
1982:  59
1983:  51
1984*b:  45
1985:  41
1986:  47
1987:  47
1988:  49
1989:  38
1990:  38
1991:  48
1992:  54
1993*b:  48
1994:  42
1995:  55
1996:  46
1997:  45
1998:  42

Location
California
Employment Year
1980:  277
1981:  308
1982:  288
1983:  269
1984*b:  268
1985:  234
1986:  242
1987:  217
1988:  134
1989:  217
1990:  238
1991:  215
1992:  255
1993*b:  236
1994:  239
1995:  220
1996:  235
1997:  235
1998:  222

Location
Colorado
Employment Year
1980:  34
1981:  43
1982:  45
1983:  34
1984*b:  41
1985:  21
1986:  32
1987:  36
1988:  30
1989:  28
1990:  27
1991:  51
1992:  32
1993*b:  28
1994:  32
1995:  42
1996:  36
1997:  41
1998:  45

Location
Connecticut
Employment Year
1980:  31
1981:  19
1982:  25
1983:  25
1984*b:  28
1985:  28
1986:  18
1987:  22
1988:  26
1989:  14
1990:  19
1991:  19
1992:  27
1993*b:  29
1994:  14
1995:  17
1996:  19
1997:  21
1998:  31

Location
Delaware
Employment Year
1980:  39
1981:  38
1982:  27
1983:  15
1984*b:  29
1985:  26
1986:  20
1987:  21
1988:  24
1989:  26
1990:  15
1991:  17
1992:  19
1993*b:  16
1994:  21
1995:  29
1996:  26
1997:  24
1998:  22

Location
DC
Employment Year
1980:  38
1981:  34
1982:  37
1983:  38
1984*b:  31
1985:  28
1986:  31
1987:  35
1988:  26
1989:  30
1990:  21
1991:  25
1992:  22
1993*b:  24
1994:  30
1995:  28
1996:  34
1997:  19
1998:  24

Location
Florida
Employment Year
1980:  99
1981:  113
1982:  121
1983:  117
1984*b:  119
1985:  119
1986:  118
1987:  120
1988:  118
1989:  110
1990:  111
1991:  129
1992:  114
1993*b:  125
1994:  146
1995:  150
1996:  135
1997:  126
1998:  114

Location
Georgia
Employment Year
1980:  74
1981:  55
1982:  60
1983:  60
1984*b:  53
1985:  39
1986:  44
1987:  47
1988:  48
1989:  45
1990:  37
1991:  39
1992:  35
1993*b:  38
1994:  81
1995:  56
1996:  44
1997:  42
1998:  46

Location
Hawaii
Employment Year
1980:  36
1981:  26
1982:  27
1983:  30
1984*b:  21
1985:  20
1986:  21
1987:  14
1988:  14
1989:  22
1990:  19
1991:  16
1992:  22
1993*b:  18
1994:  18
1995:  15
1996:  18
1997:  19
1998:  13

Location
Idaho
Employment Year
1980:  38
1981:  35
1982:  29
1983:  37
1984*b:  35
1985:  41
1986:  30
1987:  30
1988:  42
1989:  35
1990:  39
1991:  37
1992:  30
1993*b:  26
1994:  32
1995:  39
1996:  36
1997:  40
1998:  32

Location
Illinois
Employment Year
1980:  95
1981:  94
1982:  83
1983:  85
1984*b:  114
1985:  93
1986:  88
1987:  79
1988:  92
1989:  104
1990:  102
1991:  80
1992:  112
1993*b:  120
1994:  124
1995:  99
1996:  95
1997:  116
1998:  90

Location
Indiana
Employment Year
1980:  56
1981:  56
1982:  46
1983:  52
1984*b:  53
1985:  47
1986:  44
1987:  33
1988:  25
1989:  22
1990:  25
1991:  24
1992:  34
1993*b:  32
1994:  34
1995:  34
1996:  31
1997:  42
1998:  27

Location
Iowa
Employment Year
1980:  61
1981:  46
1982:  29
1983:  17
1984*b:  30
1985:  29
1986:  33
1987:  23
1988:  21
1989:  30
1990:  30
1991:  25
1992:  30
1993*b:  23
1994:  19
1995:  26
1996:  28
1997:  30
1998:  21

Location
Kansas
Employment Year
1980:  48
1981:  23
1982:  23
1983:  24
1984*b:  21
1985:  27
1986:  18
1987:  23
1988:  17
1989:  33
1990:  28
1991:  21
1992:  23
1993*b:  34
1994:  26
1995:  21
1996:  25
1997:  36
1998:  29

Location
Kentucky
Employment Year
1980:  46
1981:  46
1982:  49
1983:  27
1984*b:  29
1985:  32
1986:  43
1987:  46
1988:  37
1989:  32
1990:  58
1991:  54
1992:  41
1993*b:  40
1994:  61
1995:  56
1996:  47
1997:  54
1998:  51

Location
Louisiana
Employment Year
1980:  40
1981:  61
1982:  43
1983:  42
1984*b:  46
1985:  43
1986:  37
1987:  39
1988:  37
1989:  35
1990:  30
1991:  35
1992:  37
1993*b:  44
1994:  31
1995:  42
1996:  37
1997:  30
1998:  42

Location
Maine
Employment Year
1980:  43
1981:  28
1982:  33
1983:  38
1984*b:  31
1985:  37
1986:  34
1987:  41
1988:  34
1989:  28
1990:  24
1991:  27
1992:  35
1993*b:  40
1994:  44
1995:  31
1996:  31
1997:  38
1998:  35

Location
Maryland
Employment Year
1980:  42
1981:  42
1982:  48
1983:  38
1984*b:  42
1985:  38
1986:  27
1987:  27
1988:  23
1989:  27
1990:  30
1991:  23
1992:  18
1993*b:  22
1994:  22
1995:  22
1996:  23
1997:  21
1998:  24

Location
Massachusetts
Employment Year
1980:  57
1981:  61
1982:  39
1983:  57
1984*b:  78
1985:  93
1986:  79
1987:  94
1988:  83
1989:  115
1990:  113
1991:  102
1992:  102
1993*b:  97
1994:  121
1995:  71
1996:  64
1997:  62
1998:  59

Location
Michigan
Employment Year
1980:  102
1981:  113
1982:  96
1983:  124
1984*b:  139
1985:  136
1986:  141
1987:  118
1988:  139
1989:  143
1990:  141
1991:  140
1992:  139
1993*b:  138
1994:  136
1995:  102
1996:  115
1997:  102
1998:  93

Location
Minnesota
Employment Year
1980:  39
1981:  37
1982:  37
1983:  41
1984*b:  36
1985:  28
1986:  30
1987:  25
1988:  13
1989:  21
1990:  28
1991:  30
1992:  30
1993*b:  33
1994:  24
1995:  25
1996:  31
1997:  31
1998:  25

Location
Mississippi
Employment Year
1980:  77
1981:  58
1982:  50
1983:  49
1984*b:  51
1985:  47
1986:  45
1987:  42
1988:  49
1989:  50
1990:  57
1991:  46
1992:  52
1993*b:  49
1994:  44
1995:  44
1996:  45
1997:  43
1998:  30

Location
Missouri
Employment Year
1980:  54
1981:  43
1982:  40
1983:  45
1984*b:  52
1985:  42
1986:  37
1987:  36
1988:  30
1989:  28
1990:  38
1991:  30
1992:  39
1993*b:  33
1994:  34
1995:  28
1996:  45
1997:  31
1998:  23

Location
Montana
Employment Year
1980:  38
1981:  27
1982:  32
1983:  43
1984*b:  33
1985:  43
1986:  31
1987:  40
1988:  39
1989:  30
1990:  38
1991:  44
1992:  34
1993*b:  39
1994:  39
1995:  33
1996:  31
1997:  30
1998:  37

Location
Nebraska
Employment Year
1980:  46
1981:  28
1982:  22
1983:  21
1984*b:  21
1985:  20
1986:  24
1987:  20
1988:  18
1989:  24
1990:  26
1991:  23
1992:  26
1993*b:  30
1994:  19
1995:  28
1996:  27
1997:  30
1998:  33

Location
Nevada
Employment Year
1980:  50
1981:  19
1982:  24
1983:  27
1984*b:  23
1985:  21
1986:  15
1987:  31
1988:  27
1989:  20
1990:  32
1991:  38
1992:  24
1993*b:  29
1994:  36
1995:  25
1996:  27
1997:  30
1998:  31

Location
New Hampshire
Employment Year
1980:  26
1981:  28
1982:  27
1983:  24
1984*b:  17
1985:  15
1986:  21
1987:  16
1988:  18
1989:  20
1990:  18
1991:  18
1992:  23
1993*b:  18
1994:  13
1995:  17
1996:  32
1997:  30
1998:  30

Location
New Jersey
Employment Year
1980:  72
1981:  87
1982:  76
1983:  52
1984*b:  73
1985:  98
1986:  100
1987:  83
1988:  66
1989:  78
1990:  71
1991:  86
1992:  89
1993*b:  98
1994:  104
1995:  66
1996:  77
1997:  72
1998:  61

Location
New Mexico
Employment Year
1980:  57
1981:  57
1982:  41
1983:  37
1984*b:  35
1985:  34
1986:  48
1987:  30
1988:  37
1989:  45
1990:  44
1991:  42
1992:  42
1993*b:  53
1994:  45
1995:  56
1996:  54
1997:  41
1998:  50

Location
New York
Employment Year
1980:  187
1981:  200
1982:  171
1983:  180
1984*b:  220
1985:  180
1986:  181
1987:  157
1988:  115
1989:  203
1990:  220
1991:  194
1992:  205
1993*b:  219
1994:  228
1995:  204
1996:  196
1997:  205
1998:  220

Location
North Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  62
1981:  63
1982:  66
1983:  47
1984*b:  90
1985:  100
1986:  93
1987:  100
1988:  115
1989:  128
1990:  104
1991:  103
1992:  124
1993*b:  141
1994:  136
1995:  69
1996:  67
1997:  70
1998:  70

Location
North Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  39
1981:  27
1982:  13
1983:  27
1984*b:  32
1985:  26
1986:  18
1987:  25
1988:  29
1989:  30
1990:  30
1991:  27
1992:  20
1993*b:  21
1994:  20
1995:  15
1996:  21
1997:  22
1998:  29

Location
Ohio
Employment Year
1980:  125
1981:  117
1982:  106
1983:  123
1984*b:  121
1985:  116
1986:  99
1987:  93
1988:  100
1989:  114
1990:  120
1991:  123
1992:  114
1993*b:  142
1994:  131
1995:  102
1996:  95
1997:  101
1998:  120

Location
Oklahoma
Employment Year
1980:  46
1981:  43
1982:  40
1983:  38
1984*b:  39
1985:  42
1986:  25
1987:  22
1988:  34
1989:  32
1990:  33
1991:  35
1992:  27
1993*b:  44
1994:  41
1995:  41
1996:  41
1997:  55
1998:  50

Location
Oregon
Employment Year
1980:  63
1981:  49
1982:  40
1983:  53
1984*b:  41
1985:  21
1986:  20
1987:  26
1988:  36
1989:  31
1990:  36
1991:  43
1992:  40
1993*b:  26
1994:  33
1995:  43
1996:  42
1997:  42
1998:  35

Location
Pennsylvania
Employment Year
1980:  146
1981:  130
1982:  97
1983:  119
1984*b:  119
1985:  110
1986:  106
1987:  117
1988:  110
1989:  114
1990:  122
1991:  131
1992:  119
1993*b:  134
1994:  152
1995:  127
1996:  125
1997:  105
1998:  125

Location
Rhode Island
Employment Year
1980:  50
1981:  35
1982:  33
1983:  38
1984*b:  35
1985:  32
1986:  24
1987:  27
1988:  27
1989:  18
1990:  20
1991:  22
1992:  24
1993*b:  28
1994:  15
1995:  39
1996:  31
1997:  28
1998:  23

Location
South Carolina
Employment Year
1980:  37
1981:  39
1982:  29
1983:  28
1984*b:  34
1985:  39
1986:  44
1987:  40
1988:  40
1989:  45
1990:  42
1991:  49
1992:  44
1993*b:  41
1994:  34
1995:  31
1996:  37
1997:  40
1998:  39

Location
South Dakota
Employment Year
1980:  28
1981:  21
1982:  40
1983:  24
1984*b:  21
1985:  39
1986:  27
1987:  33
1988:  28
1989:  33
1990:  37
1991:  28
1992:  41
1993*b:  43
1994:  37
1995:  31
1996:  29
1997:  30
1998:  28

Location
Tennessee
Employment Year
1980:  41
1981:  43
1982:  67
1983:  56
1984*b:  47
1985:  56
1986:  55
1987:  42
1988:  52
1989:  46
1990:  36
1991:  48
1992:  66
1993*b:  69
1994:  41
1995:  44
1996:  68
1997:  54
1998:  43

Location
Texas
Employment Year
1980:  137
1981:  116
1982:  122
1983:  127
1984*b:  120
1985:  116
1986:  134
1987:  135
1988:  140
1989:  133
1990:  138
1991:  144
1992:  126
1993*b:  150
1994:  127
1995:  141
1996:  136
1997:  147
1998:  134

Location
Utah
Employment Year
1980:  40
1981:  25
1982:  39
1983:  33
1984*b:  26
1985:  22
1986:  19
1987:  17
1988:  21
1989:  32
1990:  17
1991:  23
1992:  16
1993*b:  25
1994:  26
1995:  31
1996:  22
1997:  28
1998:  25

Location
Vermont
Employment Year
1980:  36
1981:  22
1982:  35
1983:  25
1984*b:  22
1985:  22
1986:  28
1987:  19
1988:  22
1989:  20
1990:  23
1991:  33
1992:  30
1993*b:  32
1994:  26
1995:  19
1996:  24
1997:  30
1998:  28

Location
Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  49
1981:  47
1982:  54
1983:  34
1984*b:  32
1985:  32
1986:  32
1987:  33
1988:  32
1989:  43
1990:  44
1991:  45
1992:  32
1993*b:  21
1994:  56
1995:  41
1996:  49
1997:  44
1998:  41

Location
Washington
Employment Year
1980:  74
1981:  42
1982:  46
1983:  36
1984*b:  38
1985:  34
1986:  35
1987:  32
1988:  19
1989:  32
1990:  46
1991:  33
1992:  17
1993*b:  31
1994:  49
1995:  38
1996:  37
1997:  31
1998:  42

Location
West Virginia
Employment Year
1980:  58
1981:  42
1982:  51
1983:  41
1984*b:  42
1985:  25
1986:  28
1987:  43
1988:  46
1989:  46
1990:  40
1991:  40
1992:  48
1993*b:  59
1994:  53
1995:  62
1996:  66
1997:  50
1998:  45

Location
Wisconsin
Employment Year
1980:  28
1981:  39
1982:  30
1983:  41
1984*b:  27
1985:  24
1986:  26
1987:  24
1988:  28
1989:  40
1990:  32
1991:  29
1992:  37
1993*b:  36
1994:  35
1995:  38
1996:  35
1997:  36
1998:  25

Location
Wyoming
Employment Year
1980:  31
1981:  20
1982:  26
1983:  20
1984*b:  21
1985:  26
1986:  25
1987:  28
1988:  23
1989:  22
1990:  17
1991:  23
1992:  21
1993*b:  20
1994:  26
1995:  38
1996:  27
1997:  33
1998:  32

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999. 

a.  Persons with a disability are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."

b.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increase the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, there 
were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer-assisted survey 
interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with sample 
weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, and 
three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these changes 
affected the measurement of the population with a disability either through 
changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered disability 
questions.



Appendix Table 5.  Estimated Correlation Coefficient of Employment from Year to 
Year in the United States, Employment Years 1980 through 1998*a,*b

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1980 to 1981
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.548
With Disabilities:  0.712
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.744
With Disabilities:  0.618

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1981 to 1982
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.502
With Disabilities:  0.736
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.751
With Disabilities:  0.660

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1982 to 1983
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.520
With Disabilities:  0.727
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.747
With Disabilities:  0.722

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1983 to 1984*c
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.538
With Disabilities:  0.742
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.738
With Disabilities:  0.687

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1984 to 1985*d
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.548
With Disabilities:  0.720
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.743
With Disabilities:  0.682

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1985 to 1986
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.559
With Disabilities:  0.697
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.749
With Disabilities:  0.677

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1986 to 1987
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.527
With Disabilities:  0.646
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.743
With Disabilities:  0.638

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1987 to 1988
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.609
With Disabilities:  0.777
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.741
With Disabilities:  0.660

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1988 to 1989
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.611
With Disabilities:  0.740
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.729
With Disabilities:  0.668

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1989 to 1990
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.600
With Disabilities:  0.750
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.744
With Disabilities:  0.699

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1990 to 1991
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.553
With Disabilities:  0.685
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.743
With Disabilities:  0.689

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1991 to 1992
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.552
With Disabilities:  0.695
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.733
With Disabilities:  0.665

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1992 to 1993*c
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.550
With Disabilities:  0.730
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.734
With Disabilities:  0.652

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1993 to 1994*c
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.552
With Disabilities:  0.739
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.731
With Disabilities:  0.682

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1994 to 1995*d
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.553
With Disabilities:  0.724
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.723
With Disabilities:  0.671

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1995 to 1996
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.555
With Disabilities:  0.708
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.715
With Disabilities:  0.660

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1996 to 1997
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.545
With Disabilities:  0.693
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.682
With Disabilities:  0.726

Pair of Consecutive Employment Years:  1997 to 1998
Men
Without Disabilities:  0.555
With Disabilities:  0.762
Women
Without Disabilities:  0.680
With Disabilities:  0.726

Source: Author's calculations using the March Current Population Survey, 1981 
through 1999.

a.  In the March CPS of any given year, approximately half of the households 
were surveyed the prior March, while the remaining households are eligible to be 
surveyed the following March.  These estimated correlation coefficients measure 
the degree to which people's disability status in one year are related to their 
disability status in the next year.

b.  Persons with disabilities are defined as those who report having (or are 
reported by the household's respondent as having), at the time of the survey, "a 
health problem or disability which prevents them from working or which limits 
the kind or amount of work they can do."  Individuals who report that they 
worked at least 52 hours annually in the previous calendar year, the "employment 
year", at civilian jobs or businesses, including temporary, part-time, or 
seasonal work are considered to have been employed.

c.  In April of survey year 1984, sample weights based on the 1970 Census were 
replaced with sample weights based on the 1980 Census and the sample design was 
changed to increases the accuracy of state estimates.  In survey year 1994, 
there were several changes in the CPS.  It moved fully to computer assisted 
survey interviews.  Sample weights based on the 1980 Census were replaced with 
sample weights based on the 1990 Census.  The Monthly Basic Survey was revised, 
and three new disability questions were added.  It is possible that these 
changes effected the measurement of the population with disabilities either 
through changes in the sample weights or in the way respondents answered 
disability questions.

d.  It is not possible to identify individuals that are in both the March 1985 
and March 1986 surveys, therefore estimated correlation coefficients for 
employment years 1984 to 1985 are not available.  A conservative proxy is 
provided - the larger of the values from employment years 1983 to 1984 and 1985 
to 1986.  This problem occurs for employment years 1994 to 1995, as well.


